Maureen O'Brien narrowly survived a coronavirus infection acquired at Epping Gardens aged care home after daughter Donna asked ambulance officers to take her to hospital.
To add insult to injury, when the 85-year-old left the home in Melbourne's north and was recovering in hospital, Epping Gardens sent Donna eight bags of her mother's belongings. The problem? Much of it wasn't Maureen's, and half of it was men's clothing.
Some of the bags of belongings sent to Maureen O'Brien's family, along with a bag marked "clinical waste".
Also included was a half-full yellow bag marked "clinical waste", used by aged care homes throughout the pandemic to dispose of used personal protective equipment.
Thirty-eight residents died at Epping Gardens, about 6 per cent of the 647 elderly people to die with coronavirus since July in Victorian aged care.
Donna is adamant her mother, who has now recovered, would be among the dead had an ambulance not collected her from Epping Gardens in July when infections were reaching a peak.
She called the ambulance after the home told her Maureen wasn't doing well.
Donna O'Brien and her mother Maureen, who was an Epping Gardens resident but now lives at a home in East Brighton.Credit:Simon Schluter
"The ambulance people were pleased to take Mum," she said. But she believes Epping Gardens staff tried to stop her mother from going to the Northern Hospital.
"They [ambulance staff] rang me from Epping Gardens and you could hear the staff saying to them, 'We don’t know why you’re here!' "
When she got to hospital Maureen "was put on a drip straight away", said Donna, who watched her fall into "a very serious state" before recovering. "She wasn’t palliative, but Epping Gardens treated her like she was."
The family of another resident, Carmela Agnello, who died at the home, told The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald that health authorities instructed Epping Gardens to make all efforts possible to keep residents at the home rather than go to hospital.
Maureen O’Brien has moved to a new home in East Brighton, closer to her daughter in Cheltenham. "Unfortunately, her anxiety is now through the roof," Donna said, putting it down to her mother's experience at Epping Gardens.
That experience wasn’t much improved when Epping Gardens returned Maureen’s belongings. "A lot of her stuff was gone, including some gold jewellery," Donna said.
Not long after the outbreak started at Epping Gardens in July, Maureen’s family and others at the home had a meeting with Aged Care Minister Richard Colbeck.
Maureen O'Brien just before she acquired coronavirus at Epping Gardens.
Donna said it was "utterly useless" because the solution offered was for her mother to come home for eight weeks, with a funded home care package.
"Given the extent of her health problems, it was an unhelpful suggestion," said lawyer Nick Mann, who is representing the family over an allegation that Maureen was so roughly handled at the centre that she suffered bruising.
Epping Gardens chief executive Greg Reeve declined to comment when contacted with a series of questions about Maureen's treatment at the home.
Initially, Mr Reeve said he could not comment because the matter was before the courts. When told the case was not before the courts, Mr Reeve said: "Regardless, the matters remain the subject of the Victorian Police and aged care complaints commission [investigations]."
A Victoria Police spokeswoman confirmed the force was investigating what happened at Epping Gardens as part of a Coroner's Court probe into deaths at the home.
And a WorkSafe spokesman said: "Investigations are continuing into the coronavirus outbreak at Epping Gardens."
Along with 103 residents who got coronavirus at the home, 87 staff also contracted it.
Mr Mann said while it was not clear if legal action would be taken, the O'Brien family wanted people to see there was little or no effective oversight of aged care homes hit by coronavirus outbreaks.
He said several agencies should have ensured that "what happened to Maureen can and should [have been] prevented".
"What this outbreak has demonstrated is a completed lack of accountability and responsiveness from those bodies, including the federal minister," he said.
Mr Mann said what happened to Maureen was clear evidence "of 'light touch' regulation being gamed by private providers who aren’t appropriately regulated".
And he said residents such as Maureen, and low-paid staff at homes across Australia, were left to suffer in "a vacuum of accountability".
He said even holding operators to account via legal action was often difficult.
"Catching COVID, having to call an ambulance to be able to leave Epping Gardens, sustaining unexplained bruises, and having the danger and humiliation of used [personal protective equipment] and men’s shoes dumped [with the family] – the law of negligence as it stands in Victoria is not equipped to respond to those sorts of perils and humiliations," he said.
Get our Coronavirus Update newsletter for the day's crucial developments and the numbers you need to know. Sign up to The Sydney Morning Herald's newsletter here and The Age's here.
Clay Lucas is a senior reporter for The Age. Clay has worked at The Age since 2005, covering urban affairs, transport, state politics, local government and workplace relations for The Age and Sunday Age.
Copyright © 2020