At least 160 people plan on attending protest about Dar Leaf on Tuesday
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Michigan residents have called for Barry County sheriff Dar Leaf to resign, after it emerged that he had shared a stage with one of the men arrested in the alleged foiled plot to kidnap governor Gretchen Whitmer.
William Null, a member of the Michigan Liberty Militia group, was arrested alongside 12 others last Friday in relation to the alleged plot to kidnap the governor at her summer home.
Mr Null has been charged with material support for terrorist acts and possessing firearms in commission of a felony, WWMT reported.
Following the suspect’s arrest last week, it was reported that sheriff Leaf had shared a stage with Mr Null at a protest against Ms Whitmer’s stay at home order in May, alongside other members of the militia group.
A protest with at least 160 attendees is now scheduled in Hastings, Michigan, on Tuesday, to call for Mr Leaf to be removed from his post, according to Newsweek.
The protest has been organised by Olivia Bennett, who is running for the position of Barry County commissioner.
She told Michigan Live on Monday: “We are not accusing [Sheriff Leaf] of having known about the kidnapping plot and we are not accusing him of being a part of it at all.”
Already have an account? Log in here
Ms Bennett added: “Some people in this county have tried to make the connection and have said we should investigate Dar for that, but that is not where I'm at or what I am suggesting at all.
“What I am suggesting is his actions and his words embolden people who would attempt to do such things.”
Mr Leaf, who has allegedly refused to enforce Ms Whitmer’s coronavirus measures, spoke about Mr Null and his brother Michael, who was also arrested in relation to the failed plot, on Friday.
He told Fox17: “I was shocked, did not see this coming with those guys, but still we can't convict them in the media here, they do have a right to a fair trial.”
When asked if he had any regrets about being on stage with one of the men charged in the alleged plot, he did not express any remorse and went on to question whether the group were actually trying to carry out an “arrest”.
“It’s just a charge,” he said. “Are they trying to kidnap? Because a lot of people are angry with the governor and they want her arrested. So are they trying to arrest or was it a kidnap attempt?”
Mr Leaf added: “In fact, these guys are innocent till proven guilty so I'm not even sure if they had any part of it.”
Mr Null is facing 20 years in prison for the alleged plot, and is being held on a $250,000 (£191,312) bond.
State and federal law enforcement officials have claimed that the group planned the alleged kidnapping plot for two months prior to their arrest.
The FBI said the men planned to capture Ms Whitmer before 3 November’s national election and “try” her in Wisconsin.
The group allegedly felt that Ms Whitmer had “uncontrolled power” over coronavirus measures, and they had planned “various acts of violence,” for their plot, according to the Associated Press.
Speaking about their arrest, Detroit US attorney Matthew Schneider told reporters on Friday: “All of us in Michigan can disagree about politics, but those disagreements should never, ever amount to violence.
“Violence has been prevented today.”
Barry County Sheriff Dar Leaf, front right, speaks next to members of the Michigan Liberty Militia during the “American Patriot Rally-Sheriffs speak out” event at Rosa Parks Circle in downtown Grand Rapids, Mich., Monday, 18 May, 2020
(MLive/Grand Rapids Press via the Associated Press)
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
