Only 20 per cent of adults back Boris Johnson’s strategy, according to a snap Yougov survey
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Almost two thirds of Britons think the government does not have a clear plan to tackle coronavirus, according to a new survey.

The snap Yougov poll was carried out after prime minister Boris Johnson announced the new three-tier lockdown system for England.
Intended to "standardise" the different rules currently in place across the country, the scheme divides regions into "medium", "high" or "very high" alert levels.

The top tier - which currently includes Liverpool and six local authorities in the Merseyside area - will see bans on household mixing and closures of pubs and other hospitality businesses.

However only 20 per cent of British adults said they think the government has a clear plan on how to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, with 64 per cent saying the government did not have a clear plan and the remaining 16 per cent replying "Don't know".

Even Tory voters are critical of the strategy, with 45 per cent of them saying the government does not have a clear plan.

A majority of British adults - 40 per cent - say the new measures do not go far enough, while 15 per cent say they go too far. Just 19 per cent think the measures "get the balance right".
Asked whether the lockdown restrictions should be local or national, most people (57 per cent) said the rules should be different from one area to another depending on the number of coronavirus cases.

Less than a third (31 per cent) said the rules should be the same across the whole of each country in the UK.

And while all regions backed the decision to stick with local restrictions, the North and Scotland were less certain compared to the rest of Great Britain.

In the North 48 per cent were in favour of local lockdowns compared to 39 per cent in favour of national rules, compared to the South with 67 per cent to 25 per cent.

The online poll was carried out on 2,973 adults shortly after the prime minister finished his statement to the House of Commons on Monday afternoon.
Boris Johnson answers questions about the government's new lockdown system.
Sky News
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
