Appearing alongside Boris Johnson at press conference 
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
The government’s chief medical officer has warned that new local lockdown restrictions to be brought in in the most severe cases will not work on their own.
Just hours after they were unveiled by Boris Johnson, Professor Chris Whitty said he was “not confident” they would be enough to curtail the spread of the disease. 
Just one area in England has, so far, been classified as “very high” risk. 
From Wednesday all bars, pubs, and gyms in Merseyside will have to close.
But the area will also be subject to other limitations not included in the restrictions published by the government.
Standing beside the prime minister at a special press conference to set out the new measures, Prof Whitty said he was “not confident” that the Tier 3 restrictions  would be enough to get on top of the virus on their own.
He also hinted that many of those who shielded earlier this year would not be asked to do the same this time around.
An announcement on a new shielding scheme is expected imminently. 
Prof Whitty said: “People who have been previously on the shielding group are at greater risk, and we would advise them always to take greater precautions.
“We also recognise that there were significant difficulties and often mental distress and loneliness for people who were put into shielding. We are trying to deal with that in the way that we approach shielding over the next phase.”
Mr Johnson warned that rising coronavirus cases and hospital admissions were flashing like “dashboard warnings in a passenger jet” as he set out the new three-tier system.
There were more coronavirus patients in hospital than when the UK went into lockdown in 23 March, the prime minister said.
“These figures are flashing at us like dashboard warnings in a passenger jet and we must act now,” he said.
chris whitty briefing
Reuters TV
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
