President Donald Trump claimed without evidence that demonstrators were ‘Biden fools’
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Protesters in Portland overturned statues of Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln on Sunday, as president Donald Trump claimed the demonstrators were “Biden fools.”
The protest organisers called the event the “Indigenous Peoples Day of Rage” in response to Monday’s federal holiday, Columbus Day, which is named after the 15th-century Italian explorer Christopher Columbus, according to CBS News.
Activists who have been campaigning for the removal of monuments to Columbus across the US over the last few months argue that the Italian explorer mistreated indigenous people upon his arrival to the Americas.
At around 9pm on Sunday, protesters in Portland, Oregon, toppled the statue of Roosevelt, titled Theodore Roosevelt, Rough Rider, before throwing red paint on the monument and using a blowtorch on its base.
The Associated Press reported that Roosevelt – president from 1901 to 1909 – expressed hostility towards Native Americans, and once said: “I don't go so far as to think that the only good Indians are dead Indians, but I believe nine out of every 10 are.”
Eight minutes later rhe protesters then pulled down a statue of Lincoln.
They spray painted “Dakota 38” on the base of Lincoln’s statue, in reference to the 38 Native American men the former US president approved to be hanged after they were involved in a conflict with white settlers.
Already have an account? Log in here
Over the last few months there has been a growing conversation in the US about the place of symbols of the Confederacy and perpetrators of racial injustice, following the death of unarmed black man George Floyd in Minneapolis on 25 May.
Numerous monuments to Confederate officials and soldiers have been toppled across the US, as have statues commemorating Columbus.
Black Lives Matter protests have also taken place in every state across the US, while Portland residents held demonstrations for more than 100 days this summer following Floyd’s death.
On Monday morning, Mr Trump captioned video footage of the protests, without any evidence: “These are Biden fools. ANTIFA RADICALS. Get them FBI, and get them now!”
Mr Trump, other high profile Republicans and Fox News hosts have criticised protests over the last few months, highlighting incidents of violence and vandalism at demonstrations across the country.
However, in late September, the Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project (ACLED) analysed more than 7,750 Black Lives Matter protests across the US, and found that 93 per cent of the demonstrations were peaceful.
Despite the toppling of statues and vandalism being counted as part of the project’s report, the analysis only found 220 instances of violent protests between May and September.
President Trump has also repeatedly claimed that Antifa, an umbrella term for various anti-fascist groups, is behind violence at various protests in Portland. However, federal prosecutors have not linked any demonstration arrests for federal crimes to the loosely organised group.
After the protesters toppled the statues on Sunday, the group smashed windows of the Oregon Historical Society and the Portland State University Campus Public Safety office.
The police later declared the event a riot and said that anyone involved in “criminal behaviour, including vandalism” would be arrested. So far no arrests have been announced.
A group of protesters toppled statues of former presidents Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln in Portland’s South Park Block late Sunday, 11 October, 2020
(The Associated Press)
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
