NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian has again stressed that she did nothing wrong throughout her five-year relationship with a disgraced MP, as her party room gave her unwavering support.
Ms Berejiklian has been forced to defend her relationship with former Wagga Wagga MP Daryl Maguire, who is the subject of a corruption inquiry into his dealings with property developers.
Premier Gladys Berejiklian insists she did nothing wrong during her five-year relationship with Daryl Maguire. Credit:Nick Moir
"I would be the first one to put up my hand and admit I've done anything wrong, but I haven't," Ms Berejiklian said on Tuesday.
"At all times I've acted in the best interest of this state, had I known that any wrongdoing was occurring at any stage I would not have hesitated to act.
Ms Berejiklian said she "maintained a distinction between my personal and private life and the public office I hold."
"I appreciate the difficult circumstances that have arisen, but I also appreciate that at all stages I did everything I had to do in relation to executing my job in public office," she said.
Ms Berejiklian ruled out resigning on Monday after telling a corruption hearing that she was in a "close, personal relationship" from just after the 2015 state election with Mr Maguire.
The ICAC heard revelations on Monday Ms Berejiklian knew Mr Maguire was receiving commissions for brokering property deals as far back as 2014.
Liberal MPs met for their first party room meeting on Tuesday since Ms Berejiklian's bombshell evidence. The Premier apologised to her MPs for the revelations.
One senior Liberal said Ms Berejiklian apologised to her colleagues for her actions and for causing any harm to the government, which she said would never be her intention.
Replay

Another MP and close ally said Ms Berejiklian had "burnt some political capital" but there was widespread support for her within the parliamentary party and the wider community.
A long-serving Liberal said there was nothing but support for the Premier in the party room.
"Everyone's completely backing in Gladys, it's 100 per cent," the MP said.
Upper house MP Matthew Mason Cox did not criticise Ms Berejiklian in the party room, despite his earlier public comments that the ICAC revelations were extremely damaging for her.
One Nation leader Mark Latham said Ms Berejiklian's actions were worthy of her resignation and indicated he would be reluctant to support government legislation if she remained leader.
His colleague Rod Roberts, the assistant president in the upper house, said One Nation would "watch how next few days play out" before deciding their position.
"This is not about her personal life, but there was probably a little more pillow talk than we know about," Mr Roberts said.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison also defended Ms Berejiklian for a second day, insisting the Premier has his "absolute support".
The Premier said she provided information regarding the nature of their relationship with Mr Maguire to the best of her ability.
The most important news, analysis and insights delivered to your inbox at the start and end of each day. Sign up to The Sydney Morning Herald’s newsletter here, The Age’s newsletter here, Brisbane Times' here and WAtoday's here.
Alexandra Smith is the State Political Editor of The Sydney Morning Herald.
Copyright © 2020