

Aussie royalty Bindi Irwin has taken to social media to share the first pictures of her baby bump, and damn, this really is a lot of emotions to process all in one go.

Back in August, she and husband Chandler Powell announced that they were expecting a baby, by posting a pic of a tiny khaki Australia Zoo shirt.
Today, she shared another update, writing:
My beautiful mum took this photo yesterday. Baby girl is doing great. Every time we get an ultrasound she’s incredibly energetic and always moving around. She’s now about the same size as a mountain pygmy-possum. Too cute!
It is legit very hard to process the fact that Bindi Irwin, who has been in our lives since she was a baby, is now having one of her own, but we are extremely excited for her and this blessed infant.

 My beautiful mum took this photo yesterday. Baby girl is doing great. Every time we get an ultrasound she’s incredibly energetic and always moving around. She’s now about the same size as a mountain pygmy-possum. Too cute! ????
A post shared by  Bindi Irwin (@bindisueirwin) on Oct 10, 2020 at 1:33pm PDT

Earlier this week, Bindi shared a family photo, including her brother Robert Irwin and mum Terri along with fiance Chadler Powell and perhaps the two most important family members – Stella the pug and Piggy the Cavalier King Charles.

 Family forever❤️
A post shared by  Stella & Piggy (@stellairwinthepug) on Oct 4, 2020 at 10:48pm PDT

Stella and Piggy have their own Instagram, and are well worth a follow, if you are craving some wholesome animal content.

 Beach day !! ????????
A post shared by  Stella & Piggy (@stellairwinthepug) on Oct 9, 2020 at 8:15pm PDT

There are no more articles to be viewed
Loading...

Sign up with your Facebookor Linkedin account
Please select at least one of the following options to continue
By signing up, you agree to Pedestrian Group's Terms of Service and consent to our Privacy Policy.
Already registered? Login here
Login with your Facebookor Linkedin account
 Wanna be remembered?