Musician didn’t want to be singing the band’s early love songs when he was 30
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
A resurfaced interview reveals John Lennon’s personal views on the break-up of The Beatles.
Lennon, who would have turned 80 today, died on 8 December 1980, 10 years after the group parted ways.
Many often wonder whether Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr would have reunited had Lennon not been killed, but the musician himself dismissed this idea in 1971.
During an interview with Daily Express, he said: “There’s no reason why we should ever play together.”
Lennon also expressed his happiness at the band's disintegration due to the fact that Harrison was given the chance to spread his wings musically.
Harrison released the beloved triple-album All Things Must Pass in 1970. It is widely considered to be the best of all the solo Beatles’ respective records.
“Listen to the music,” Lennon added. “Would George have ever flourished like that if we’d carried on with the group? No chance. There was no room.”
He continued: “It’s far better music because we’re not suppressed. In The Beatles, by the time [we] were at [our] peak, we were cutting each other down to size.”
He said that their talents were restricted due to the fact they had to try to “fit into come kind of format”, which in turn “limited our capacity to write and perform”.
Part of his decision to leave was because he didn’t want to be performing classic hits like “She Loves You” when he turned 30.
The Beatles broke up when Lennon was 30.
The Beatles
Getty Images
Lennon thought George Harrison ‘flourished’ after the band broke up
Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
