Singer RM had referred to a ‘shared history of pain’ between the US and South Korea
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
K-pop superstars BTS have provoked a backlash in China after a comment made by their bandleader regarding the Korean war.
Kim Nam-joon, known as RM, delivered a speech in which he refers to South Korea’s shared “history of pain” with the US stemming from the conflict.
The Korean war, which lasted from 1950 to 1953, saw the UN (predominantly the US) back South Korea, fighting against the North, who were supported by China and the USSR.
RM’s comments have reportedly affected the band’s lucrative Chinese commercial deals, as adverts featuring BTS from companies such as Samsung, Hyundai and Fila have disappeared from several Chinese websites (Tmall and JD.com) and social media platforms (Weibo).
BTS, who are currently the best-selling music artist in South Korea’s history, are also one of the most popular K-pop bands in China.
The controversial comments were made as the seven-piece boyband accepted an award recognising the relationship between South Korea and the US.
"We will always remember the history of pain that our two nations shared together and the sacrifices of countless men and women," said RM, while accepting the award.
In a tweet, the Chinese state newspaper Global Times wrote: “Chinese netizens said the band’s totally one-sided attitude to the Korean war hurts their feelings and negates history.”
The paper also named the US as the “aggressor” in the Korean war. While the war began when North Korea invaded the South in June 1950, China did not enter the war until the UN-South Korean offensive upwards into North Korea later that year.
Across the course of the war, around 200,000 South Korean soldiers and 36,000 American soldiers died, as well as millions of civilians. According to the country’s state media, some 180,000  Chinese soldiers also perished. 
BTS
Getty
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
