List of venues facing reduced opening schedules includes five London sites
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Vue cinemas has announced that around a quarter of their venues will be closing for three days a week as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.
The cinema chain, which operates 87 venues across the UK, confirmed that 21 of its sites are to be closed from Tuesdays to Thursdays.
A spokesperson said: “We will be temporarily reducing our opening days to ensure that our business is financially well placed to withstand the uncertainty ahead.”
The move follows a similar announcement by rival cinema chain Odeon, as well as the news that Cineworld and Picturehouse cinema chains would be closing their doors entirely for the foreseeable future.
As a result of the pandemic, UK cinema admissions have reportedly been the lowest (adjusted for inflation) since records began.
Prior to Cineworld’s announcement, it was revealed that the release of the forthcoming James Bond film No Time to Die would be postponed from November until Spring 2021. 
Several other high-profile blockbusters set for release this year have been pushed back until 2021, including the Frank Herbert adaptation Dune, and the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Black Widow.
Disney’s live-action Mulan, and the forthcoming Pixar film Soul, have converted to digital releases in lieu of the expected theatrical debuts.
Five of the Vue venues changing to part-time openings are in London, including the flagship cinema in Leicester Square.
The spokesperson added: "We remain committed to ensuring that Vue has a long-term future, to protecting the livelihoods of our staff and keeping our doors open to ensure our cinemas continue to serve the communities they operate in.
“We are looking forward to returning to full steam as soon as Hollywood studios start releasing the content which audiences are clamouring for.”
Vue cinemas are reducing opening times in 21 venues across the UK
Getty
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
