‘Trump so strong he did not even need to drink bleach to stay alive!’ tweeted character
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Sacha Baron Cohen’s Borat character has made his Twitter debut – and his feed is dedicated to mocking Donald Trump.

Since joining the website on Friday (9 October), the account has mostly been criticising the president over his response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

“Trump so strong he did not even need to drink bleach to stay alive!” tweeted the account.

Referencing the US death toll, Borat wrote: “Premiere Trump true leader - he have prove himself stronger than more than 200,000 of his American subjects!”

Cohen also shared a short PSA video in which Borat talks about the “new plague” that originated in “Wuhan in Israel”.
Borat’s Twitter debut comes ahead of the Borat sequel, which premieres on Amazon Prime on 23 October.

The film, titled Borat Subsequent Moviefilm: Delivery of Prodigious Bribe To American Regime For Make Benefit Once Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan, marks Borat’s return to the screen after almost 14 years.
In it, Cohen will reprise his role as the hapless Kazakh journalist, who inserts himself into wacky and dangerous situations in America.
Sacha Baron Cohen as Borat
Borat Twitter
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
