Clip invokes faith and prayer and urges voters to write in the rapper  
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Kanye West has released his first presidential campaign ad, 22 days before the 2020 general election.
The clip, unveiled on Monday, emphasises religion and urges voters to write in West as their candidate of choice.
“America. What is America’s destiny? What is best for our nation? Our people? What is just? True justice?" West ponders in the video.
“We have to think about all these things together as a people. To contemplate our future, to live up to our dream, we must have vision.
“We as a people will revive our nation’s commitment to faith, to what our constitution calls the free exercise of religion, including, of course, prayer. Through prayer, faith can be restored.”
West is seen in the clip speaking with a black-and-white American flag in the background. The video also includes photos from West’s younger years.
“By turning to faith, we will be the kind of nation, the kind of people God intends us to be,” West adds.
The video ends with the words, “I am Kanye West and I approve this message”, and urges voters to “write in Kanye West” on their 2020 ballots.
Write-ins are a way for a candidate to accrue votes even if they don’t appear on the ballot. West, who announced his candidacy in July, has failed to make the ballot in several key states.
Many have questioned the seriousness of West’s campaign, especially as he missed a string of important deadlines.
Asked in an interview with Forbes whether he was running a spoiler campaign against Joe Biden, West responded by stating he was “walking”, not running, for president, adding that he was “walking… to win”.
Kanye West attends the WSJ Magazine 2019 Innovator Awards at MOMA on 6 November 2019 in New York City
ANGELA WEISS/AFP via Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
