Actor has enjoyed a wide-ranging career across theatre, TV and film
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Actor Maureen Lipman has been made a dame in the Queen’s Birthday Honours list this year.
The 74-year-old actor was awarded the honour for services to charity, entertainment and the arts. She has been a regular presence on TV and stage since the Sixties.
Her wide-ranging career has included everything from a comedy role in a BT advert to playing a supporting character in Roman Polanski’s Oscar-winning drama, The Pianist.
Born into a Jewish family in Hull in 1946, Lipman studied at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (Lamda), before being cast in early film appearances, such as 1968 drama Up the Junction.
Lipman shone as a working-class woman who befriends Suzy Kendall’s wealthy heiress, Polly Dean. She was singled out for praise in a New York Times review at the time.
The role was typical of her early career:  “I generally played northern working class girls,” she said. “The girl who didn't get the man, the best friend who made jokes and then didn't get the man. The pattern was set.”
In 1974, Lipman married playright Jack Rosenthal, with whom she had two children. Rosenthal died in 2004 – Lipman later said she found it “impossible to grieve” because her instinct was to make people laugh.
“I'd feel terrible about the fact I didn't look like I was grieving enough,” she said.
In film, Lipman received a Bafta nomination for her supporting role in Educating Rita, the 1983 comedy drama starring Sir Michael Caine and Dame Julie Walters.
She later starred in Roman Polanski’s 2002 biographical war drama The Pianist, as the mother of Adrian Brody’s lead character, Władysław Szpilman.
On stage, Lipman has appeared in productions including Oklahoma! and Aladdin. She currently stars as Evelyn Plummer in Coronation Street.
She revived her role as grandmother Beattie, from the BT advert, before last year's general election to criticise Jeremy Corbyn.
In September, she also starred in a three-night run of Martin Sherman’s Rose, about a woman’s recollection of the Holocaust to the six-day war. The role was originally made famous by Olympia Dukakis, who performed the one-woman play in London’s West End and on Broadway.
Additional reporting by Press Association
Maureen Lipman appears on This Morning (2018)
Rex Features
Maureen Lipman in Coronation Street with co-stars Paul Copley and David Neilson
Rex Features
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
