New horror film tells the story of an all-female religious cult
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
The horror film being called scarier than last year’s hit Midsommar has just been given a creepy new trailer.
Fans of Ari Aster’s Midsommar – starring Florence Pugh – will recognise similar themes in the forthcoming film by acclaimed Polish director Małgorzata Szumowska.
The Other Lamb follows a girl named Selah (Raffey Cassidy), who was born into an all-female cult that lives in the forest and is led by a man who calls himself Shepherd.
As Selah approaches puberty, however, she risks being banished to a shed reserved for the “impure”. The film sees her begin to question whether Shepherd is indeed the answer to her prayers.
Early reviews of the movie have been mostly positive. The Guardian called the film an “artful drama” rather than outright horror, adding that it “simmers with unease”.
Indiewire called the movie “a chilling parable of abuse” with “echoes of Midsommar and The Handmaid’s Tale”.
The Hollywood Reporter called it “visionary” while CBR wrote that in The Other Lamb “viewers get a cult that feels more real and comes off way scarier than Midssomar’s”.
The Other Lamb is currently being shown in selected UK cinemas and will be available to stream on Mubi from 16 October.
The Other Lamb
The Other Lamb
‘The Other Lamb’ has been compared to Ari Aster’s ‘Midsommar'
Mubi
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
