The moment has been described as ‘amsuing’
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Robert De Niro’s latest role as a grandpa has surprised critics with a few references to his previous films.
Four years after receiving some of the worst reviews of his career for Dirty Grandpa, De Niro now stars in The War with Grandpa.
The family comedy follows a young boy (Oakes Fegley) who desperately tries to get his grandfather to move out of his bedroom when he moves into the family home.
Responding to the boy’s attempts, De Niro’s character devises a series of pranks of his own with the help from some of his pensioner friends.
One of these characters is played by Christopher Walken, in what is a rather unexpected Deer Hunter reunion.
Both actors starred in Michael Cimino’s 1978 drama about steelworkers whose lives were irrevocably changed by the Vietnam War.
Apparently, according to The Hollywood Reporter, one scene in the film sees De Niro talking to himself in the mirror just like his Taxi Driver character Travis Bickle.
“There are some amusing meta-style moments, including a scene of De Niro talking to himself in a mirror, that might provide the intended knowing chuckles,” the outlet’s review wrote.
Another link to De Niro’s past filmography comes via the fact that he’s playing Uma Thurman’s father when, in 1993, they played lovers in crime comedy Mad Dog and Glory.
The War with Grandpa is being released in UK cinemas on 16 October.
Robert De Niro and Oake sFegley in ‘The War with Grandpa’
Brookdale Studios
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
