Siamese fighting fish also managed to beat two of the game’s bosses
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
A previously unknown game-breaking glitch has been discovered in the decades-old video game Pokémon Sapphire , by a pet fish belonging to a fan.
The game, part of the best-selling Pokémon RPG franchise was first released in 2002 on the Game Boy Advance handheld consoles.
Earlier this year, a Japanese Pokémon fan achieved viral fame by devising a means for his Siamese fighting fish, Maurice and Lala, to play the game.
The streamer, known as Mutekimaru, mapped out his fish tank so that when the animal entered a certain section of the tank, a button would be pressed in-game.
The fish, through what can only be interpreted as sheer arbitrary luck, proved surprisingly successful gamers, even managing to beat two of the game’s Gym Leaders.
Footage of the fish playing the game has been streamed online, which is how people were able to witness the fish swim into a previously undiscovered glitch.
While streaming on 3 October, the player fish was exploring Pokémon Sapphire’s Sea Cavern area, when it used the “Strength” ability, which ought to have moved a boulder and cleared a path.
Instead, it created a duplicate rock, which crashed the game.
Mutekimaru later revisited the location himself and repeated the fish’s movements exactly, which re-triggered the glitch.
With no-one in the comments or fan forums believing they had encountered the glitch before, credit has been given to the Siamese fighting fish.
(Left) A Siamese fighting fish, and (right) a screenshot from ‘Pokemon Sapphire'
Getty/Nintendo
Mutekimaru’s set-up involves a grid of inputs aligned with the fish tank, which is then connected to the game
Mutekimaru
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
