Competition finalist said the advice given 10 years ago has affected his career
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Nabil Abdulrashid, a black comedian who competed on Britain’s Got Talent, has revealed he was advised to make fewer jokes about his race and religion by Micky Flanagan.
While judging the ITV4 contest FHM Stand Up Hero in 2010, Flanagan suggested that Abdulrashid talked “a little bit more about not being a Muslim, or not being black”.
Abdulrashid told Metro.co.uk: “This wasn’t even some personal advice he gave at a gig. He happily said that in a professional capacity on camera. And it made the edit!”
He added: “Speaking about my experience was part of the reason why I wasn’t allowed to advance in an actual competition. That affected my career. Even if it happened 10 years ago, it’s probably happened again and again in different comedy clubs since then. And it might still be happening now.  
“How many people have been denied an opportunity or made to work even harder simply because they were different?”

A representative for Flanagan, a comedian who is famous for his routines about being cockney, told the publication: “As a judge on a TV talent show, Micky was providing constructive feedback on a competition 10 years ago. 
"Micky is delighted for Nabil’s success in making it to the final of Britain’s Got Talent and wishes him the very best with his career in the future.”
Abdulrashid placed fourth on this year’s series of Britain’s Got Talent, behind winner Jon Courtenay and runners up Sign Along With Us and Steve Royale.
“Thanks for all the support guys,” tweeted Nabil, who made headlines for his jokes about racism on the show. “Didn’t get the ‘W’ today but don’t worry… the marathon continues. Love you all #teamnabil #nabilarmy I came to make a point and I think I did.”

Nabil Abdulrashid and Micky Flanagan
Rex
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
