Hodor’s death was one of ‘Game of Thrones’s most heartbreaking moments
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
George RR Martin has revealed how Hodor’s death will differ in The Winds of Winter to his on-screen end in Game of Thrones.
Hodor’s (Kristian Nairn) death in season six of the HBO series remained one of its most heartbreaking moments, after Bran (Isaac Hempstead Wright) wargs into him, taking control of his body and allowing him to use his strength to hold back the White Walkers.
This creates a link between Hodor’s past and present self, with young Hodor – then called Wylis – having a seizure and repeating the words “hold the door” until they merge into “Hodor”, the only thing he says throughout the show.
Discussing Hodor’s future in James Hibberd’s book Fire Cannot Kill A Dragon, author Martin explained that, while the show executed the scene well, there would be some small differences in the forthcoming books.
“They did it very physical – ‘hold the door’ with Hodor’s strength,” Martin said. “In the book, Hodor has stolen one of the old swords from the crypt. Bran has been warging into Hodor and practicing with his body, because Bran had been trained in swordplay.”
He continued: “So telling Hodor to ‘hold the door’ is more like ‘hold this pass’ – defend it when enemies are coming – and Hodor is fighting and killing them. A little different, but same idea.”
The Winds of Winter is the sixth book in the A Song of Ice and Fire series, following on from 2011’s A Dance with Dragons.
It is not currently known to what extent the remaining books will divert from the final seasons of Game of Thrones, which finished in 2019.

Hodor (Kristian Nairn) holds the door

Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
