Actor played postal worker Newman on 1990s sitcom
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Wayne Knight has reprised his Seinfeld character for a new anti-Trump ad.
The actor, who appeared as postal worker Newman in the 1990s sitcom, starred in a political advert by Democratic political action committee Pacronym in support of mail-in voting.
In the advert, which was created by former Seinfeld writer David Mandel and titled “A Message from Your Friendly Local Mail Carrier”, Knight hit back against the “systematic, premeditated assault on the US mail by President Trump and his so-called Postmaster General”.
“That guy’s never even licked a stamp,” he added. “They’ve had the unmitigated gall to try to slow down the mail, when everybody knows that the only person who can slow down the mail is a mailman.”
Arguing that “when the mail stops, the world stops”, Knight encouraged viewers to take all whatever steps necessary to make sure they could vote, including voting early in person or leaving extra time to send off a postal ballot with the US Postal Service.
At the end, he addressed Trump directly, stating: “Alright Donnie, you know those tax returns? The ones you don’t want anyone seeing? You should never have mailed those.”
Knight first played Newman in season 3 of Seinfeld, during which the mailman became a close friend of Kramer (Michael Richards) and enemy of Jerry (Jerry Seinfeld).
This video marks his first time reprising the role since the show ended in 1998.
Knight starred in the ad as ‘your friendly local mail carrier'
Pacronym
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
