Hi, what are you looking for?
Kevin James Doyle comedy special  ‘the 30 year old virgin’ streaming on apple TV and Amazon Prime Video
Gary H James – Beyond the Closet review
National Lottery announces support for Panto this Christmas
‘Here Come The Boys’ to open at the Garrick Theatre in January
‘Strictly Come Dancing’ announces three live tours
Win ‘Two By Two: Overboard’ merchandise packs
Win ‘You Should Have Left’ on Blu-ray
Win ‘Duel’ and ‘Jaws’ Steelbooks
Win a ‘Saint Maud’ goodie Bag
Win an Anti-Worlds bundle featuring Penny Slinger: Out of the Shadows, Best Before Death and Krabi 2562
Premiere: watch Petric’s music video for ‘All Who Wander’
Country Music Week confirms timings and more artists
LeAnn Rimes announces 20th anniversary ‘Coyote Ugly’ megamix
Black Deer Festival adds more artists to 2021 line-up
Interview: Granger Smith opens up about his two-part album ‘Country Things’
‘Circus of Horrors’ Blu-ray review
‘Body of Water’ review
Arrow Video FrightFest October 2020 interview: Marc price discusses the challenges of bringing ‘Dune Drifter’ to life
‘Monster Hunter’: new trailer and poster released
‘My Summer As A Goth’ coming to VOD in November
‘Cyberpunk’ 2077 PC Requirements Revealed
Fall Update Is Now Live In ‘Adopt Me’ On ‘Roblox’ And Features A New Area
‘Drone Swarm’ Set For Release in October
10 Things I Wish I Knew Before Playing ‘The Survivalists’
‘The Survivalists’ Review
Interview: Guy Sebastian talks about new album ‘T.R.U.T.H.’ and the lessons he’s learned
Niall Horan announces Live stream for November
Steps drop new track ‘Under My Skin’ – take a listen
Aby Coulibaly makes her debut with ‘Taurus’
Jonathan Antoine to release Christmas album ‘ChristmasLand’ in December
‘James May: Oh Cook’ coming to Amazon Prime Video in November – watch the trailer
Anne-Marie to replace Meghan Trainor on the 2021 series of ‘The Voice UK’
‘Top Gear’ Series 29 Episode 2 Recap
‘Dancing On Ice’ confirms professional skaters for 2021 series
‘This Is Us’ season 5 premieres on Amazon Prime Video this month in the UK
A homeless Russian immigrant wanders the streets and woodland of Paris.
By
Published
Russian immigrant Ivan (Aram Arakelyan) arrives in Paris homeless and alone. He finds the streets to be hostile and retreats to the woodland for a place to shelter. As he tries to find his feet and adjust to his new way of life, Ivan meets a series of men and women that try to bring him into their world, and he’s exposed to the seedy underbelly of the city.
‘The Wanderings of Ivan’ is a ponderous and thought-provoking exploration of a young man finding his place in the world. Told with a poetic narrative, the film doesn’t feature a huge amount of dialogue, instead letting the scenery and the camera tell the story for you. Ivan’s arrival on the streets of Paris is a mixed experience as he receives kindness from some strangers but is treated poorly by others. Early on he tries to get a drink in a café on a busy street but is thrown out by the abrasive waiter who catches him asking other customers for money.
That experience drives Ivan from the streets into the woods, where he connects with nature and enjoys the solitude it brings. That’s soon interrupted when he meets a young hustler who is taking money for sexual favours from older men. Ivan resists the offer to join in, instead choosing to rob one potential customer rather than compromise his own morals for money. Ivan’s encounters with women are more fruitful for him, including a passionate exchange with an older woman.
Aram Arakelyan as Ivan is the only character the audience is really able to connect with. The handsome actor is captured wonderfully by the camera and his performance here is impressive. He’s given little dialogue to work with so facial expressions and body language are his main ways of communicating. There’s something about him that holds your attention and the film succeeds in large part thanks to his performance.
If you’re not a fan of films with a loose narrative then ‘The Wanderings Of Ivan’ won’t be for you. The plot is secondary to the beauty of the film and while Ivan does come across conflict and drama, it never really escalates to anything that dramatically changes the narrative. As a study of being a fish out of water, it’s interesting, and as a piece of art it’s beautiful to look at. Personally I could have done with a stronger through-line but I can’t deny that it left me with plenty to think about.
Cast: Aram Arakelyan, Benjamin Backlet, Camille Freychet, Franck Zerbib Director: Claude Chamis Writers: Maurice Blanchot, Claude Chamis, Sylvain Maugens Certificate: 18 Duration: 74 mins Released by: NQV Media Buy ‘The Wanderings of Ivan’

The single is available to download and stream now.
The Canadian Country trio releases their new video today.
The musician follows up her debut with a new collection of songs.
Not too long to wait until the new season arrives.
Copyright © 2020 Entertainment Focus

Entertainment Focus is a trading name of Piñata Media Limited (Reg no: 08435639)

Entertainment Focus uses affiliate links. By buying through the links we may receive a commission for the sale. This has no effect on the price for you