Rapper and producer brought grime to the international stage with his Mercury Prize-winning debut, ‘Boy in Da Corner’
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Dizzee Rascal has been made an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours for his services to music. 
Born in London on 18 September 1984, Dizzee is known as a pioneer of grime who paved the way for future stars including Stormzy and Dave. 
The rapper and producer, real name Dylan Mills, excelled in music studies as a teenager, when he began producing music on his computer while DJ-ing drum and bass at parties and on pirate radio. 
He joined the Roll Deep Crew in 2002, which included other rising stars including Skepta, Jme, Tinchy Stryder and Wiley. 
Following the success of his debut solo album, 2003’s Mercury Prize-winning Boy in Da Corner, Dizzee decided to pursue his solo career.
Boy in Da Corner, which included the singles “Fix Up, Look Sharp” and “Jus’ a Rascal”, led to Dizzee’s becoming the UK’s first international rap superstar. The album reached No 23 on the UK albums chart and received unanimous acclaim from critics.
Since its release, Dizzee has gone on to release a further six studio albums and achieve five UK No 1 singles. 
“I put grime on the main stage,” he said in a recent interview with Complex. “I put all this s***, all the hip-hop, on the main stage at all these festivals when they didn’t have the confidence in it. I made them confident.”
He also created his own label, Dirtee Stank, to help bridge the gap between “indie, majors and the street”. 
Dizzee worked with the Kitchen Social project in May this year, helping to distribute meals and food parcels at a primary school in Poplar, east London, close to where he grew up.
Dizzee’s seventh album, E3 AF, is scheduled for release on 30 October.
Additional reporting by Press Association
Dizzee Rascal at the Brit Awards in 2020
Rex Features
Dizzee Rascal on the cover of his debut album, Boy in Da Corner
Album artwork
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
