There’s been a 122 per cent rise in hours streamed of self-help podcasts
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
People are listening to mental health playlists in 2020 more than ever, Spotify has revealed.
With the pandemic forcing people to spend time indoors and a seemingly never-ending bad news cycle, listeners are turning to content intended to calm them and allow them to practice mindfulness.
According to data gathered by Spotify to mark World Mental Health Day on Saturday (10 October), the music platform has seen a 50 per cent jump in global listens for playlists relating to mental health this year.
Content related to the terms ‘mindfulness’, ‘calm’, and ‘self-care’ has also been streamed 57 per cent more in 2020 than in 2019.
This increase is not just limited to music either, with Spotify seeing a whopping 122 per cent rise in hours streamed of self-help podcasts.
The website’s personal Wellness hub has also seen a 30 per cent increase in visits.
Spotify has its own mental health initiative called Heart & Soul, which aims to reduce stigma surrounding mental health issues in the workplace.
The number of Spotify users listening to mental health playlists has doubled in 2020
Spotify
Spotify users are streaming more content related to wellness and self care
Spotify
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
