Wallen’s appearance was cancelled after he was filmed partying without social distancing
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Jack White has stepped in to replace Morgan Wallen as the musical guest on this week’s episode of Saturday Night Live, after the country singer’s appearance was cancelled over Covid-19 protocols.
SNL creator and producer Lorne Michaels announced in a segment that aired on NBC News’ Today on Friday that White has been booked for Saturday’s show, adding that “there could be some other stuff” coming.
“Calling somebody on a Thursday to be here for Friday is, you know, is complicated,” Michaels said. “It has to be people who are ready to go.”
White has been featured as a musical guest on SNL on three different occasions in the past – once with The White Stripes and twice solo. Michaels praised the musician on Friday for having been “always good on the show”.
Wallen announced on Wednesday that his slot on SNL had been cancelled after he was filmed partying without social distancing, which goes against safety protocols during the coronavirus pandemic.
“I got a call from the show letting me know that I will no longer be able to play, and that’s because of Covid protocols, which I understand,” he explained in a video on Instagram.
“I’m not positive for Covid but my actions this past weekend were pretty shortsighted and they have obviously affected my long-term goals and my dreams.”
Michaels said on Friday that Wallen “probably isn't the first country singer ever, the first person from rock 'n' roll who partied after a big game, in that case, a football game, or a concert”.
“But we're just living in a different time, and everything is scrutinized,” he added.
SNL returned on 3 October for a 46th season, with Chris Rock as host and Megan Thee Stallion as musical guest. The show’s 45th season ended with three remote episodes between April and May due to the pandemic.
Saturday’s episode will be hosted by Bill Burr.
Jack White hosts an event in McMinnville, Tennessee, on 29 September 2017
Rick Diamond/Getty Images for Tennessee Tourism
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
