Actors reunited 16 years after original film
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Lindsay Lohan and Rachel McAdams recreated the classic phone scene from Mean Girls when they got together for a virtual reunion earlier this month.
The recreation, which Lohan has only just shared on Instagram, shows the actors reprising their roles as Cady Heron and Regina George, to re-enact their phone call about the North Shore High Spring Fling.
In the video, McAdams and Lohan can be seen virtually acting out the scene from their homes, spliced with footage of the original call. It also features appearances from the other Plastics, Lacey Chabert and Amanda Seyfried.
Fans loved the reunion, with one commenting: “This is the best thing to come out of 2020.”

“We want a sequel with the original cast!” added another.

Mean Girls was released in 2004. The teen comedy grossed $130m (£99.6m) worldwide and developed a cult following, with a musical adaptation premiering on Broadway in 2018.
Mean Girls reunion
Instagram
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
