Actor is considered to have played the definitive interpretation of Agatha Christie’s moustachioed super-sleuth in the hit ITV drama
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
David Suchet has received a knighthood in the Queen’s Birthday Honours, for services to drama and charity in a career spanning 50 years. 
Best-known for his performance as Hercule Poirot in the long-running Agatha Christie detective series, Suchet recently appeared in the BBC adaptation of Philip Pullman’s His Dark Materials, as the voice of the daemon, Kaisa.
Born in London in 1946, he joined the National Youth Theatre at the age of 16 and later trained at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (Lamda).
As a struggling actor,  Suchet was working at formal menswear specialists Moss Bros in Covent Garden. 
He was about to apply for a full-time position as a junior manager when he received a call from his agent, telling him he had a job – a non-speaking role in the 1973 series The Protectors as “a terrorist who gets blown up”. The role demanded a day’s filming in Venice.
“I said ‘Yes’ at once and never went to that interview,” Suchet told The Telegraph last year.
He began his career as a full-time actor that same year, working at the Watermill theatre in Bagnor, Berkshire, before joining the Royal Shakespeare Company.
He landed his first TV speaking role in The Mating Machine in 1970 before going on to play Edward Teller in a mini-series about the Manhattan Project.
After portraying Sigmund Freud in the BBC mini-series Freud in 1984, Suchet was cast as the lead in Agatha Christie’s Poirot on ITV in 1989.
Suchet’s performance as the moustachioed detective – widely considered to be the definitive interpretation of the Belgian super sleuth – received international acclaim and attracted 700 million viewers. He continued to play the role in 70 episodes until 2013.
He was awarded a CBE in 2011 for services to drama.
On stage, Suchet appeared opposite Dame Diana Rigg in the West End production, Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, in 1996. He played Salieri from 1998 to 2000 in a Broadway production of Amadeus.
As well as His Dark Materials, Suchet most recently appeared in two other BBC dramas: Press, and Doctor Who – the latter in which he played The Landlord in the 2017 episode “Knock Knock”. 
However, it is his performance as Poirot with which Suchet will forever be associated, a fact he admitted in last year’s Telegraph interview.
“Every day someone will come up and talk to me about Poirot,” he said. “People adore Poirot. He fascinates and inspires them – I think because he’s on the good side.”
The 74-year-old said the letters he receives from fans to this day are “extraordinary” – “people say they watched it in hospital and it made them feel better. People who have got divorced said it got them through dark times.”
“I feel very grateful,” he said. “Poirot will be there until I die.”
Additional reporting by Press Association
David Suchet at the Olivier Awards
Rex Features
David Suchet as Poirot (right) and Toby Jones as Samuel Ratchett in ‘Agatha Christie : Poirot, Murder on the Orient Express’ (2010)
Rex Features
David Suchet as The Landlord in Doctor Who
BBC
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
