Gareth Southgate must deploy three at the back due to the lack of quality available to him, said the former national team defender
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Former England defender Gary Neville has said the national team will never win a major tournament with the centre-backs available to manager Gareth Southgate.
England take on Wales in a friendly at Wembley Stadium this evening, ahead of Nations League fixtures against Belgium on Sunday and Denmark on Wednesday.
Manchester United captain Harry Maguire is joined at centre-back in the England squad by Liverpool’s Joe Gomez, Everton’s Michael Keane, Wolves captain Conor Coady, Tottenham’s Eric Dier, and Tyrone Mings of Burnley.
Manchester City full-back Kyle Walker was also named in the squad and has previously played on the outside of a back three for England.
“I just don’t think that there is a centre-back partnership that is good enough to take Gareth where he wants to be, which is the final of a tournament and winning a tournament, at this moment in time,” Neville told Sky Sports.
“Whether it is Maguire and Gomez or Maguire and [John] Stones, I don’t think it would be good enough.” 
Neville suggested that the lack of quality might force Southgate to opt for a back three, a formation he deployed during the 2018 World Cup in Russia, where England reached the semi-finals, and in the Three Lions’ last outing – a 0-0 draw against Denmark in the Nations League.
“I think it needs the stability of the three,” Neville said. “I think Kyle Walker comes into that, by the way, as one of the three potentially, because I think Trent Alexander-Arnold is the wing-back. 
“I think Walker can play there with his speed. I think [Ben] Chilwell can play on the left of a back three or potentially Stones.
“I do think with the players that [Southgate] has got, England are better with a three and that is why he has gone back to it. 
“I was surprised that he came off it after the World Cup. It was the one thing that [surprised me].”
England are second in their Nations League group on four points – two behind leaders Belgium. Denmark trail Southgate’s men with one point, while Iceland are bottom in the four-team group with zero points. All four League A sides have played two games in the competition so far.
Tonight’s opponents Wales, meanwhile, are top of their League B group on six points, ahead of second-placed Finland (three points), third Republic of Ireland (one point) and Bulgaria (one point). All four teams have played two games in the competition so far.
BURTON-UPON-TRENT, ENGLAND - MARCH 22: (L-R) James Tarkowski, Lewis Cook, Harry Maguire and Joe Gomez warm up during an England training session on the eve of their international friendly against the Netherlands at St Georges Park on March 22, 2018 in Burton-upon-Trent, England. (Photo by Gareth Copley/Getty Images)
Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
