Manchester City midfielder will face England in the Nations League on Sunday and believes they have the potential to become a force of global football
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Belgium midfielder Kevin De Bruyne believes England are capable of winning Euro 2020 and the 2022 World Cup.
The Manchester City star is part of the Red Devils squad who take on the Three Lions in a Uefa Nations League game at Wembley on Sunday.
Being part of the Premier League, De Bruyne has seen at first hand the talent that is currently in the England squad and is tipping them to make their mark at the next two major tournaments.
"I think they should be very excited. It is a very young team with a lot of potential and I think they should aim to win the next Euros and World Cup - I think they have that potential," he said.
"There are always a lot of teams who want to win it, but I think the team they have, the players who play in top clubs, they should do that."
Belgium are currently the world's top-ranked team and beat England twice at the 2018 World Cup but they will be without key men Dries Mertens and Eden Hazard on Sunday.
"It is going to be a tough test but these are the tests that are necessary for us to see what is going to happen against a big team," the 29-year-old said.
"With the personnel we are losing at the moment it is going to be a bit harder but we are confident that we can play a good game tomorrow."
Belgium boss Roberto Martinez is frustrated at having Mertens missing, with the Napoli forward still stuck in Italy due to Covid-19 regulations even though other players have been allowed to leave the country.
"It is still a difficult subject to speak about because we have never been in this situation before with what the Covid brings," Martinez said.
"This is something to do with the local authorities in south Italy. At the moment we are waiting to see what will happen. We have seen some players from Italy joining the national team so you don't really know if something will change in 24 hours but it looks very unlikely.
"I don't think we can count on Dries Mertens for the game. We will try until the end, it is very unfair that a player like Dries Mertens, who is always committed to the national team and very close to 100 caps and we are going to try and wait as long as we can and give him every chance to be involved in the camp.
"But we have to be realistic that it is going to be difficult."
Martinez is expecting a tough test against the Three Lions and shares De Bruyne's view that they are primed to finally end 54 years of hurt.
"Since 1995 I am a coach that was born in Britain, I know there has been a real development in the winning mentality," the former Swansea, Wigan and Everton manager said.
"The young age groups are winning World Cups, the players are winning at a young age and that comes through to the first team and now Gareth is discovering that.
"His players are as good as anyone individually in world football and it is just a matter of time that they will get that trophy or major result in a major tournament."
PA
Kevin De Bruyne believes England have the potential to win the next two major tournaments
Reuters
Belgium will be without Eden Hazard due to injury
Getty
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
