Davis surpassed Pat Jennings to hold the country’s all-time appearances record
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Steven Davis could finally enjoy his achievement in breaking Northern Ireland's caps record after his landmark night ended in a crucial victory over Bosnia and Herzegovina in a Euro 2020 qualifying play-off semi-final.
It was perhaps fitting that Davis' 120th appearance went to 120 minutes before Northern Ireland triumphed in their first ever penalty shoot-out.
Liam Boyce struck the winning spot-kick after Bailey Peacock-Farrell saved from Haris Hajradonovic and Edin Visca hit the crossbar, keeping Northern Ireland on course for a second consecutive European finals if they can beat Slovakia in Belfast next month.
It was a vital match on Davis' big night, with the importance of the fixture meaning the 35-year-old Rangers midfielder had spent little time dwelling on his achievement of surpassing Pat Jennings on the appearances list.
"It's incredible," Davis told Sky Sports of the win. "There was a lot of build-up for me personally but it was all about the team.
"It's a huge personal achievement for me and I can enjoy it a bit now. I've had so many messages, now I can look back on the night I managed to break the record with fond memories."
Bosnia, spearheaded by the duo of Miralem Pjanic and Edin Dzeko, started the game strongly with a string of dangerous set-pieces in the first 10 minutes before they capitalised on a Jonny Evans slip to go ahead through Rade Krunic with 13 minutes gone.
Northern Ireland struggled to get a foot hold in the game but finished the first half strongly and carried that over into the second, with Niall McGinn's tenacity earning him a 53rd minute leveller.
"As usual, we didn't do it the easy way," Davis said. "In the first half we didn't play anywhere near the way we wanted to but the second half we got to grips with them and caused them problems.
"I was delighted with the character and desire of everybody. We'd said leave everything out there and don't have any regrets and we've done that, and we're delighted to get the win. Now we can look forward to the game in November."
There might have been an expectation that Davis would have stepped up to take Northern Ireland's fifth penalty with the game on the line, but Hearts' forward Liam Boyce - brought on alongside Conor Washington in the 119th minute with the shoot-out in mind - made no mistake.
"When it gets to (a penalty shoot-out) it's 50-50 but Bailey was excellent in goal and the boys who took the penalties were very composed," Davis said.
"It was a very big decision to make those substitutions for the penalty takes, and it's good to have that big call pay off."
PA
FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY - NOVEMBER 19: Steven Davis of Northern Ireland claps the fans after the UEFA Euro 2020 Qualifier between Germany and Northern Ireland at Commerzbank Arena on November 19, 2019 in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. (Photo by Christian Kaspar-Bartke/Bongarts/Getty Images)
Bongarts/Getty Images
Steven Davis became Northern Ireland’s all-time appearance maker
Bongarts/Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
