All you need to know ahead of the game
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
The high-profile fixture from Sunday night’s UEFA Nations League games sees France host Portugal at the Stade de France.
A meeting of the 2018 World Cup winners and the Euro 2016 winners, both sides have so far won twice from two games in League A, Group 3.
France warmed up for the fixture with a 7-1 battering of Ukraine, where Olivier Giroud made his 100th appearance and two players, Houssem Aouar and Mike Maignan, made their debuts.
Portugal fought out a 0-0 friendly draw with Iberian neighbours Spain, meaning they have only concede two goals in their last seven internationals, with that run stretching back to precisely one year ago.
Here’s everything you need to know before the match.
We may earn commission from some of the links in this article, but we never allow this to influence our content.
When is the game?
The match kicks off at 7:45pm (BST) on Sunday, 11 November.
How can I watch it?
The match will be screened on Sky Sports Premier League. Subscribers can also stream the game via the Sky Go app.
If you’re not a Sky customer you can grab a NOWTV Day Pass here to watch without a subscription.
What is the team news?
France fielded a heavily rotated line-up in their thumping win over Ukraine, but several performers impressed enough to perhaps warrant another appearance.
Didier Deschamps will thus ring the changes, but it could be a mixed outfit between new faces and regular starters so that players do not have to feature in all three fixtures this break. Only one of the called-up players have had to withdraw so far, Leo Dubois.
The same is unlikely to apply to Portugal, who went largely full-strength against Spain.
They are without Jose Fonte and Mario Rui, but otherwise Fernando Santos can pick his best side and must choose between the likes of Trincao, Joao Felix, Bernardo Silva and Diogo Jota in support of the attack.
Predicted line-ups
FRA: Lloris; Pavard, Upamecano, Varane, Hernandez; Kante, Pogba, Rabiot; Coman, Mbappe, Griezmann.
POR: Patricio; N Semedo, Pepe, Dias, Guerreiro; Renato Sanches, Carvalho, Moutinho; Felix, Silva, Cristiano Ronaldo.
Odds
France - 15/13
Draw - 44/19
Portugal - 86/29
Prediction
While there are some fantastic attacking players on show for both sides, it’s France’s who have started the new season in better form and a clinical edge could be the difference. A draw would be no surprise but options off the bench could tip the match the way of Les Bleus. France 2-1 Portugal
Kylian Mbappe has started this season in good form
AFP via Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
