Popular
International sport is set to return to Tokyo next month with a one-off team gymnastics event featuring athletes from China, Russia, the United States and the host nation Japan.
The International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) said its "friendship and solidarity competition" will take place at the Yoyogi National Gymnasium on November 8.
It is set to be one of the first international sports events held in the Olympic and Paralympic Games host country since the pandemic hit.
Organisers are also likely to use the competition, to be staged under a series of strict COVID-19 protocols, as a test for the postponed Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games.
Spectators will be allowed into the venue but capacity will be restricted to 2,000.
Athletes will have to undergo "several" tests for coronavirus, both before arriving in Tokyo and during their stay in the Japanese capital.
Apparatus in training halls and on the field of play will be cleaned and disinfected at the end of each session.
"This is a competition of hope," said FIG President Morinari Watanabe.
"Friendship and solidarity will lead us towards better days.
"Gymnastics will once again light up the Olympic Games in Japan next year. 
"After a challenging period, we are delighted to bring gymnastics back to the Japanese public by welcoming many of our stars to Tokyo and giving them the chance for an innovative competition on a global stage."
The two teams – one named team friendship and the other named team solidarity – will include eight male and eight female gymnasts.
Three-time Olympic gold medallist Kōhei Uchimura of Japan and reigning world all-around champion Nikita Nagornyy of Russia are among the athletes to have entered the competition.
The FIG said gymnasts at the event will "either come from China, Russia, the United States and Japan, or are training in Japan".
Since joining insidethegames.biz, in 2015 Liam Morgan has covered a variety of international multi-sport events and conferences, including the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympics, the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games and the Lillehammer 2016 Winter Youth Olympics. He also reported from the 2017 IOC Session in Lima and three editions of the FIFA Congress. He graduated from Southampton Solent University in 2014 with a BA First Class honours degree in Sports Journalism. 
Nadal draws level with Federer on 20 Grand Slam singles titles after more joy at Roland Garros

The 1928 Olympic Games in Amsterdam saw a number of important milestones, but one we still all benefit from today is revolutionising car parking. Like other cities around Europe in the late 1920s, the streets of Amsterdam were filling up fast with cars, and during the Games this issue was more pressing than ever, so organisers were forced to rack their brains in search of a solution. The allotted parking area next to the Olympic Stadium had room for a maximum of 2,000 vehicles, nowhere near enough to meet the demand during Games time. In response, the City Council provided a number of other sites that took parking capacity up to 3,500 vehicles and 2,000 bicycles. However, no sooner had one problem been solved than another was created: how were drivers and cyclists supposed to find their way to the new car parks? A solution was found in the shape of small blue panels with a white capital "P" in the middle. So it was that the international traffic sign for parking was born.
FIFA - Senior Multimedia Manager - Zurich, Switzerland

            Implementing all multimedia content requirements for delivery of standard competition and corporate coverage and campaigns across FIFA’s owned and operated digital platforms according to deadline and budget. To support our Communications Division, FIFA is looking to recruit a flexible and analytical person as a Senior Multimedia Manager.

More jobs

Voting is now underway in a hotly contested and bitter battle to lead World Sailing. David Owen runs the rule over incumbent Kim Andersen and the three challengers looking to unseat him.
Read more
Big Read Archive
Should there be restrictions on the numbers of spectators allowed at events during the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and Paralympics?