Indoor venues have been allowed spectators to return, but football stadiums are still waiting
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Pundits Ian Wright and Roy Keane joined the growing number of voices asking for reconsideration over football fans being allowed back into games.
A petition asking the government to allow supporters to return to games at an open-air stadium passed the 100,000 mark in recent days, meaning a parliamentary debate should take place on the matter.
And the Premier League, FA and EFL other footballing bodies recently sent an open letter to all fans saying they had “demonstrated that we can deliver matches safely” with several test fixtures over the summer.
Meanwhile, clubs are struggling with a lack of revenue, which Keane said on ITV will lead to them going out of business if the situation does not change with regards to fans.
“Clubs will go bust, if you look at the situation [at Wembley] - you can't tell me there can't be 10,000 people in there tonight,” he said, labelling the rulings “frustrating and bizarre”.
Ian Wright concurred and said that appropriate measures should be easily put in place to allow a number of supporters into professional football grounds, considering some people are allowed into smaller cultural events.
"I'm very frustrated when you see the size of Wembley and how they can social distance in it.
"People will be worried about the concourses but when you look the measures they are doing [to get media in the ground] - and you'll have to up that - I can't understand how people can't be here.
“When you look at the Albert Hall and cinemas and seeing how they close the curtains - why can't we get fans back in now? Look at the lower league teams, they are suffering.”
Brighton had a limited number of fans in place for a pre-season game against Chelsea and several Champions League group stage fixtures are set to have a number of home fans in place, where local laws allow - but at present in England that will not be the case.
Roy Keane says fans should be allowed to return to football stadiums too
Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
