The Three Lions ground out a famous win at Wembley without truly outplaying their high class opponents 
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
How exactly did that happen? Despite being outclassed for long periods, despite being fortunate to go in level at the break, despite fielding three different right-backs all at the same time, a commendable second-half resurgence was enough for England to move top of their Nations League group by beating the No 1-ranked international side in the world.
This was only Belgium’s second defeat since assuming their position at the top of Fifa’s world rankings two years ago, having previously won 16 of their 19 games since a third-place finish at the last World Cup. Romelu Lukaku’s early penalty suggested this would be one of their more routine victories against talented but ultimately inferior opposition.
Yet Marcus Rashford’s penalty, Mason Mount’s deflected strike and England’s willingness to stay in the game and not become overawed by their opponents was enough to claim an unlikely but very welcome three points. Gareth Southgate will happily accept this scoreline after the uninspiring displays away to Iceland and Denmark last month, but was this really any better? It is difficult to say.
The questions around England’s set-up persist. Southgate said earlier this week that the recent change to three-at-the-back was made in order to better reflect the talent pool at his disposal. Gaps would appear with other formations if injuries and suspensions took hold, he claimed. “We’ve had a couple of systems where, if one or two key personnel aren’t available then you are really potentially having to change tack.”
The system is not dissimilar from the one which produced England’s best finish at a major tournament in 22 years at Russia 2018, but that set-up also produced just three goals from open play in seven World Cup games and none in two meetings with Belgium at that same tournament. England appeared just as impotent at Wembley on Sunday, with no shot on Simon Mignolet’s goal - on target or otherwise - after half an hour.
Compare and contrast this with the fluidity and variation of Belgium’s play in the opening stages, conducted by the irrepressible Kevin De Bruyne. Yannick Carrasco saw an early goal dubiously disallowed, while the ease with which Romelu Lukaku broke away before drawing a thoughtless challenge from Eric Dier to win a penalty did not bode well. Indeed, Belgium continued to dominate.
When England drew level, it was only from the penalty spot and after a soft decision going in their favour. If Thomas Meunier had not tugged on the shoulder of Jordan Henderson but Jordao Hendersinho, certain pundits may have been tempted to describe what followed as “Latin”. As it was, the exaggerated fall was a reminder that English players are by no means above making the most of minimal contact.
If that was what it would take for England to establish a foothold in the contest, it worked. There was a significant improvement from Southgate’s side in the second half - greater aggression, better organisation - but it was not the sort which generated a glut of clear-cut chances. In fact, England were fortunate again for the decisive goal. A faint touch off Toby Alderweireld’s boot sent Mount’s strike on a trajectory that made it impossible for Mignolet to stop.
It all felt strangely familiar. England’s best results during the Southgate era have come without a truly assured performance to back them up. The run to the World Cup semi-finals was littered with questions about their style and set-up, their dependence on set-pieces and the standard of opposition. The victory away in Spain during the last Nations League campaign was a game in which they were dominated and almost collapsed late on. 
And here, again, they felt strangely second-best. Winning international football matches through hard work, willpower and a touch of good fortune is a handy trait to have and nothing to turn your nose up at. And yet, it would be nice to see a Southgate side truly convince against elite opposition. There are some games which you learn very little from. This felt like one of them, as many of the questions which surround England remain unanswered.
Mason Mount celebrates after putting England ahead
Getty
Mason Mount celebrates after putting England ahead
Getty
Mount scored England’s winner
Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
