
					By Dino-Ray Ramos 
Associate Editor/Reporter
EXCLUSIVE: The Hawai‘i International Film Festival (HIFF) has unveiled its lineup for its 40th anniversary of the festival which will be a hybrid of in-person and virtual screenings. This marks the fiest time that HIFF will be accessible to audiences across the nation. The fest will focus on Hawai‘i-made films and Kanaka Maoli filmmakers and will take place November 5-29.
“This has been an enormously difficult year for nonprofits, artists and arts organizations, and creative entrepreneurs in Hawai’i. While our 40th anniversary isn’t the grand experience we had been planning, I could not be more proud and excited to announce our Festival lineup.” says HIFF Executive Director, Beckie Stocchetti. “For our 40th anniversary, the HIFF lineup is a statement on the perseverance and resilience of Hawaii’s community and entrepreneurial spirit. In an unexpected Festival year, we are proud to have pivoted our theater experience into a top-tier streaming experience, maintain all of our education programs, our free virtual reality program, and even increase our industry panels and Q&As.”

		Related Story	

			NewFest's New York LGBTQ Film Festival Sets Lineup, Will Open With 'Ammonite'		

The festival will present over 200 films from 25 countries, and 17 world premieres opening with Lee Isaac Chung’s Minari which made it its world premiere at Sundance 2020, where it won both the Grand Jury Prize and Audience Award.  Starring Steven Yeun, Han Ye-ri, Alan Kim, Noel Kate Cho, Youn Yuh-jung, and Will Patton, Minari follows a Korean-American family that moves to a tiny Arkansas farm in 1969 in search of their own American Dream. The family home changes completely with the arrival of their sly, foul-mouthed, but incredibly loving grandmother and the story then takes place over the next couple of years. The film will screen for one night only, followed by a Q&A with director Chung and star Steven Yeun.
“We are honored to open this year’s 40th anniversary with Lee Isaac Chung’s Minari. When we saw it at Sundance earlier this year, we set our sights to invite this film and present it at HIFF in a major way.” says Anderson Le, HIFF’s Artistic Director. “It not only captures the director’s amazing humanism that appears in many of his previous works, but is also a classic American immigrant story that rings true for many of our audiences. In a way, this is a film that we all need right now.”

The Made In Hawai‘i competition amplifies the voice of local artists, centering Hawai‘i -grown talent and film productions. The awards celebrate the dynamic and flourishing local independent film scene that strives onward the Hawaiian Islands. Fiction, Non-fiction and short films that are made by locally-based filmmakers or involve locally-based stories are eligible for a Best Made-in-Hawai‘i film award. This year’s program includes:
Also available nationwide will be the world premiere of the action comedy Lumpia With A Vengeance featuring: former UFC fighter Mark Muñoz, April Absynth, Darion Basco and Danny Trejo (Machete, From Dusk Til Dawn). A reboot of the 2003 Filipino American cult-favorite, Lumpia;  Lumpia With A Vengeance will also reunite some of the original cast.
National audiences can also enjoy works from the New American Perspectives program. Presented by the Vilcek Foundation, the New American Perspectives program shines a spotlight on the contributions of immigrant filmmakers to contemporary cinema in the United States, and supports the inclusion of films by foreign-born filmmakers, screenwriters, and producers at the festival. The foundation provides support for talks, educational programs, and screenings at the festival, creating a platform for immigrant voices and experiences. The New American Perspectives program include:
Firelight and the Melting Pot: Conversations about Race will be a unique 3 day panel series at HIFF, focused on films challenging and expanding notions of race and equality in Hawai‘i and the US. In collaboration with Firelight Media, an organization dedicated to supporting non-fiction BIPOC filmmakers telling stories about communities of color, these free panels offer a space to reflect on Black Lives Matter and social justice movements towards a more fair, equitable world.
Rounding out the list of films are:
In partnership with the Daniel K. Inouye Institute (DKII), the 2020 edition of the HIFF Daniel K. Inouye Institute Student Film Initiative, students explored the ideals of leadership and civic action needed during these unprecedented times by creating cinematic letters for the Future President of the United States.  Finalists are eligible to win cash and camera equipment as well as have the opportunity for a private virtual event with Hamilton‘s Philippa Soo. In addition, the fest will include the opportunity for audiences to enjoy HIFF XR safely at home, a dynamic showcase of creative works in emerging media — virtual reality, video games, live streaming, and more.

In an effort to reignite the local economy, HIFF will partner with Consolidated Theaters to present limited in-person screenings in Oahu. For select dates throughout the festival month, HIFF will screen titles for local audiences in theaters with reduced seating capacity. HIFF will have programming, on select dates at: Consolidated Mililani With Titan Luxe, Consolidated Pearlridge, Consolidated Kapolei and ‘Olino by Consolidated Theatres with Titan Luxe. Programming at these venues will include:

Subscribe to Deadline Breaking News Alerts and keep your inbox happy.
Launch dates for broadcast, cable and streaming programs
Up-to-date lists for broadcast, cable and streaming series
Pandemic-proof vs. pandemic-contingent broadcast lineups
Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters
Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks
We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form.
Sign up for our breaking news alerts
Copyright © 2020 Penske Business Media, LLC. All Rights reserved.