Fixture was abandoned at half time after coach’s positive result was revealed in second round of testing
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
The Scottish Football Association has apologised after Scotland Under-19 head coach Billy Stark returned a positive coronavirus test during a match against England, forcing the fixture to be abandoned.
Negative tests had been produced by players and staff from both teams ahead of the game at the English Football Association's St George's Park training complex near Burton upon Trent.
But, with the sides scheduled to meet again at the same venue on Sunday, a second round of testing had already been carried out prior to kick-off.
Stark's subsequent positive result became known mid-game, prompting action to be halted immediately and the forthcoming weekend fixture to be postponed.
An SFA statement read: "The under-19s squad and backroom team all delivered negative Covid-19 tests on Sunday to enable them to play in today's match against England.
"Three players based in England joined up with the squad yesterday and they, and the rest of the squad, were tested again with a view to Sunday's second match.
"The three players had been in isolation and had no contact with anyone else.
"Nonetheless, despite testing negative during Sunday's test, the head coach, Billy Stark, returned a positive test for Covid-19 this afternoon.
"The result of the second test was immediately relayed to the under-19 team manager and the game was abandoned immediately, in line with established Covid-19 protocol.
"We apologise to the (English) FA for any inconvenience caused and reiterate our commitment to the health and safety of all our international players and staff."
Without the second game in the double-header, the second round of tests would not have been necessary, meaning the match would have been completed, potentially risking further infection.
Stark will travel home in isolation and self-isolate for 10 days, while Scotland's players and the rest of the backroom team will undertake precautionary self-isolation for 14 days.
The Scottish Government will undertake a formal risk assessment to assess who Stark was in close contact with during the camp.
Saturday's under-17 fixture between the two countries at St. George's Park has also been postponed.
PA
Teams were informed of Billy Stark’s positive result at half time
Getty
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
