Jack Grealish was the star of the show for England in a 3-0 win over Wales at Wembley
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
1) Grealish stakes claim for key England role
Reading football Twitter you would think Jack Grealish had suddenly burst on to the scene this season. He was sensational in Aston Villa’s demolition of Liverpool and he was fantastic again here against Wales, but he was doing the kind of Grealish things he has been doing for several years. His ability to drift past opponents, shield the ball, draw fouls and create opportunities for teammates is as good as anything England have right now and the only mystery is why it has taken Gareth Southgate so long to harness those skills. His talents are not dissimilar to Paul Gascoigne, albeit a lofty comparison, and in the same way Grealish can add an X-factor to this team to unpick better defences than this in the months and years to come.
2) Calvert-Lewin and Ings, ready-made understudies
England have been searching for a reliable understudy for Harry Kane since Jamie Vardy retired from international football. Marcus Rashford is better attacking from wide while Tammy Abraham is yet to find consistency; but in Dominic Calvert-Lewin and Danny Ings, Gareth Southgate has quality in abundance. Both took their first England goals with aplomb and most importantly played in a manner akin to their Premier League form. While there is an argument to pair one of the duo with Kane in attack, it’s more likely in the short term that they compete to be first man off the bench when called upon, and they both showed here that they are worthy of the role.
3) Pope is England’s best goalkeeper
It is a long time since Jordan Pickford was England’s best goalkeeper, probably stretching back to the 2018 World Cup. Of course it was his excellent and dependable work in Russia which earned Southgate’s trust and cemented his place as No 1, but that position is surely no longer so solid now. While Pickford has been making a series of errors in the Premier League over the past 12 months or so, Burnley’s Nick Pope has seemed near imperious, and Pope showed exactly what he has to offer with a composed display and clean sheet at Wembley. It may not have been the stiffest of tests, but Pope showed in his demeanour that he feels he belongs in the England team. The question now is whether Southgate agrees.
4) 3-4-3 still raises questions
This was a far better England performance than the stale draw with Denmark last time out, but there were still periods of the match particularly in the first half when the midfield four appeared disjointed from the front three. Southgate has said he believes it could be a formation that England use against high quality opposition and it makes sense to trial sooner rather than later, but neither Wales nor Denmark represent the kind of calibre the manager is preparing for. The result was good here but the performance wasn’t always controlled and there remain plenty of question marks over whether England should continue towards Euro 2020 with the 3-4-3 shape. 
5) Coady here to stay?
Conor Coady’s delight after scoring was joyous, and to cap off his day he finished the game wearing the captain’s armband too. Could he be a long-term solution in what has been a problem position for England in recent years? Time will tell, but the early signs are promising. 
Jack Grealish was the star of the show for England
POOL/AFP via Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
