A decisive game against Serbia awaits Steve Clarke’s players next month
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Scotland's Euro 2020 dreams live on after Steve Clarke’s side squeezed past Israel 5-4 on penalties after a goalless draw at Hampden on Thursday. 
There was little between the teams during 120 minutes of tense action and so spot-kicks were required to decide who would go on to face Serbia in next month’s play-off final. 
It was the visitors who blinked first as David Marshall saved Eran Zahavi’s opening effort for Israel. 
And with John McGinn, Callum McGregor, Scott McTominay and Lawrence Shankland all converting, it was left to Kenny McLean to fire home the decisive kick, which ensured Scotland go to Belgrade with hopes of reaching a first major tournament since 1998 alive and kicking. 
Elsewhere, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland’s play-off semi-finals also went to penalties, with the former emerging victorious against Bosnia and Herzegovina while the latter suffered heartbreak in Slovakia. PA
Scotland players celebrate their dramatic victory
Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
