
England face Wales for the first time since Euro 2016

It is an international friendly between England and Wales. The two nations last met in the group stages of Euro 2016 when Daniel Sturridge's late winner settled the game in England's favour. 
The match is on Thursday, October 9. 
The action gets under way at Wembley at 8pm. 
ITV have live coverage. Alternatively, you can bookmark this page and return to follow the game on our live blog in the company of JJ Bull.
Mason Greenwood and Phil Foden were omitted from Gareth Southgate's England squad after breaching Covid restrictions in the previous international break. Tammy Abraham, Ben Chilwell and Jadon Sancho will also not feature against Wales for the same reason after they attended a private party where more than six people were present.
Southgate has talked up the chances of heavy rotation, and Nick Pope might well start in goal at the expense of out-of-form Jordan Pickford. Dominic Calvert-Lewin, Harvey Barnes and Bukayo Saka could all make their senior debuts. 
Wales are without star players Gareth Bale and Aaron Ramsey. Bale is working his way back from injury and is likely to make his second Tottenham debut after the international break, while Juventus refused to release their internationals due coronavirus flare-ups in Italy. 
James Corrigan explored the history of the England-Wales rivalry and what this friendly means:
Gareth Southgate felt the criticism he received in the previous international break was unfair:
Chief Sports Writer Oliver Brown on why Southgate has shown his players too much trust:
We expect England to have too much quality for Wales, especially without Bale and Ramsey to threaten them on the counter-attack. 
Verdict: England 3 Wales 0
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
Thank you for your support.
Need help?
Visit our adblocking instructions
page.