One more match stands between the Tartan Army and a place in the finals
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Steve Clarke's bid to make history with Scotland is still on after his side beat Israel in a dramatic Euro 2020 play-off semi-final penalty shoot-out at Hampden Park.
After 120 goalless minutes, John McGinn scored the first from the spot before Scotland keeper David Marshall saved a shot from Eran Zahavi.
Callum McGregor, Scott McTominay and Lawrence Shankland all scored, as did Nir Bitton, Shon Weissman and Abu Fani, leaving substitute Kenny McLean, on for Stephen O'Donnell, to slot his penalty in for a 5-3 win.
Scotland travel to take on Serbia in the final on November 12 where they will look to get through to a finals for the first time since the 1998 World Cup finals in France.
Clarke said: "Yes, it's a big chance. We spoke about hopefully making a small piece of history for the national team.
"We still have that in front of us. So that was the objective tonight was to make sure that we were in the final next month. And we've achieved that.
"I'm really pleased for the players, 120 minutes in a tense, nervy affair and then they had to show a lot of character towards the end to get the win out of the penalty shoot-out.
"And thankfully the little bit of work we did on penalties during the week paid off."
The former Chelsea coach recalled the 2008 Champions League final shoot-out when the Stamford Bridge side lost to Manchester United after being in the position where Blues skipper John Terry had the chance to win it.
He said: "I've been on the wrong side of a penalty shoot-out in a big game, a Champions League final.
"We had a penalty to win it and we actually missed it.
"So there was still pressure there as Kenny was walking up.
"But listen, his penalties during the week were excellent and I had every confidence he would stick it away."
Israel boss Willi Ruttensteiner said: "It was two organised teams and in the end Scotland were a little bit more lucky because if you watch the first penalty, Ofir Marciano has his hands on the ball, and the second penalty, normally Eran scores.
"He is 100 per cent our best shooter, so I think it was a good play-off game and very sad about the result."
PA
Scotland celebrate after winning the shoot-out
Getty Images
Kenny McLean scores Scotland’s crucial penalty
AFP via Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
