The conversation will be available to watch through YouTube and the Malala Fund's social media channels.

Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are joining forces with education campaigner Malala Yousafzai to celebrate this year’s International Day of the Girl.
Meghan and Harry will join the renowned 23-year-old activist for a video chat on Sunday 11 October, a spokesperson for the couple has confirmed.
The trio will discuss the barriers facing more than 130 million girls around the world who are not currently receiving an education, and what is being done to help them.
The conversation will be livestreamed through YouTube and the Malala Fund's social media channels.
Ms Yousafzai, who is international activist who campaigns for human rights, was targeted and shot by a Taliban gunman in 2012 at the age of 15, after campaigning for girls to be educated in her native Pakistan.
After surviving the assassination attempt, she moved to England and later founded the non-profit Malala Fund to support her work and went on to become the youngest-ever Nobel Peace Prize winner in 2014.
She also recently graduated from Oxford University, where she was studying philosophy, politics and economics.
Meghan has also been outspoken about her commitment to empowering young women and advocating for gender equality. 
The former Suits star delivered a powerful speech at the UN Women Conference in 2015, where she recalled writing a letter at the age of 11, asking a soap manufacturer to change its sexist TV advert.
During her time as a working royal, she has regularly centred her work on women’s rights, including providing them with resources to obtain jobs through her patronage Smartworks.
Most recently, Meghan celebrated the work of young activists during a virtual speech for the Girls Up Leadership Summit, during which she spoke about the importance of women “building each other up.”
In August, the duchess referred to Harry as a feminist during a discussion with Gloria Steinem about the importance of voting in the upcoming US presidential election.
“As I’ve gotten older I’ve been able to understand that it’s not mutually exclusive to be a feminist and be feminine,” Meghan said. “And to own that and harness your femininity and your identification as a woman in all of the different layers.”
After Steinem pointed out that you can be “a feminist and be masculine and a guy,” the duchess referenced her husband as proof.
“Like my husband! I love that when he just came in he said: ‘You know that I’m a feminist too, right Gloria?! It’s really important to me that you know that,” Meghan recalled.
Sussexes join Malala for virtual chat
Getty
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
