De Bruyne captained his national side in their Nations League defeat by England on Sunday before being substituted on 73 minutes
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Belgium coach Roberto Martinez has admitted that there are concerns around Kevin De Bruyne’s fitness ahead of the national team’s fixture against Iceland on Wednesday.
Manchester City midfielder De Bruyne captained Belgium in their 2-1 Nations League defeat by England on Sunday before being substituted on 73 minutes.
Martinez’s side are set to travel to Iceland as the competition continues this week, but it is unclear whether De Bruyne will feature.
“I would not say that Kevin is injured… He said he felt something,” Martinez said.
“It is too early to know what he has, but he did not feel 100 percent [against England].
“It was rather a precautionary change.”
Man City fans and the club’s coach Pep Guardiola will hope that – whether or not he appears against Iceland – De Bruyne will be able to take to the pitch on Saturday, when City host Arsenal in the Premier League.
The last time the two teams faced off was in the FA Cup semi-finals in July, with the Gunners emerging 2-0 victors and going on to win the tournament two weeks later.
The clubs are also due to meet at the Emirates Stadium in the Carabao Cup quarter-finals in December.
Belgium's midfielder Kevin De Bruyne (L) is substituted by Belgium's coach Roberto Martinez (C) during the UEFA Nations League group A2 football match between England and Belgium at Wembley stadium in north London on October 11, 2020. (Photo by NEIL HALL / POOL / AFP) / NOT FOR MARKETING OR ADVERTISING USE / RESTRICTED TO EDITORIAL USE (Photo by NEIL HALL/POOL/AFP via Getty Images)
POOL/AFP via Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
