To revisit this article, select My⁠ ⁠Account, then View saved stories.
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
By Gerald Marzorati
Novak Djokovic versus Rafael Nadal has been the tennis matchup of this era. Nearly half their fifty-six matches have been tournament finals, nine of those Grand Slam finals. The final they played in Melbourne, at the 2012 Australian Open, won by Djokovic, is widely considered the greatest hard-court match of all time. Their five-set French Open semifinal the following summer, won by Nadal, remains the finest clay-court men’s match this fan has ever watched. Djokovic and Nadal entered Sunday’s French Open final ranked No. 1 and No. 2, respectively; Nadal was second (with nineteen) and Djokovic third (with seventeen) on the all-time list of major championships, behind only Roger Federer (with twenty). They have not only been battling each other for a long time but, for so much of that time, for the highest stakes. It’s a rivalry unrivalled.
Great rivalries don’t always yield great matches. Nadal won this year’s final in Paris, his gobsmacking thirteenth, 6–0, 6–2, 7–5. It brought to an end a French Open delayed four months by the coronavirus pandemic and played most days beneath the mizzling skies that, with game birds on the menu and chestnuts beneath the trees, lend Paris its particular autumnal ambience, a somber moodiness deepened this year by a gathering second wave of COVID-19. Much of Paris was closing up again, and the players were confined to a couple of hotels. Only a thousand fans were permitted inside the main show court at Roland Garros, Court Philippe Chatrier. They wore masks, mostly black, and, with temperatures in the fifties, what they call doudounes (puffer jackets), mostly black. Chatrier has a new retractable roof, and it was closed on Sunday, with rain in the forecast, and this added to a gloom Nadal spoke about after winning his first-round match against the Belarusian journeyman, Egor Gerasimov. “The feeling is more sad than usual,” Nadal said. “Maybe that’s what it needs to feel like. It needs to be sad. Many people in the world are suffering.”
Nadal carried no despondency with him onto the court on Sunday. He broke Djokovic’s serve in the very first game, held his serve, then broke Djokovic again—and, after another hold, broke him again before a last hold to close out the set. But the scoring line in tennis can be among the least revealing of any sport. It took Nadal a fair amount of time, forty-five minutes, to bagel Djokovic. Half of the six games went to long deuces. There were a number of lengthy, remarkable rallies. And there were a couple of new wrinkles. One of the things that draw your attention, watching a match between longtime rivals, is what, if any, changes they introduce to their games, so familiar now to each other. Players who have won as often and for as long as Djokovic and Nadal are not especially eager to alter their on-court ways. But here was Djokovic, feathering drop shots, lots of them, as he had throughout the tournament, reasoning that the weather-dampened red clay would yield bounces so low that even Nadal wouldn’t reach them. Mostly, wrong: Nadal got there more often than not, and struck the winners Djokovic was seeking with those droppers. Here, too, was Nadal, not running around the ball as often as he tends to, to hit his peerless topspin forehand inside out—all tournament, with the rather moist clay, he hadn’t been getting his patented high bounce off that shot. Instead, he took those balls with his backhand, often slicing it short and low. Mostly, right: Djokovic mistimed more than a few forehands off those slices, resulting in errors. On such alterations (and some patchy serving from Djokovic), Nadal’s first-set bagel was built. And, when Rafael Nadal wins the first set of a Grand Slam match, he is going to win the match.
If anything, set two seemed more lopsided than the first, with Djokovic’s unforced errors piling up and Nadal playing ridiculously clean tennis, mishitting very few balls and gliding to the corners as if he were grasping the direction of an incoming shot before it had left Djokovic’s racquet. He was the quicker man on court this day—did skipping the U.S. Open help his often ailing knees? He would turn out to be the calmer player, too. In the middle of the third set, broken for the first time, he broke Djokovic right back. Djokovic began pressing, going for more, hitting bigger and aiming early in points for the lines—what was there left to do? Serving to save a break point at 5–all, he reached back for something extra on his second serve, and the ball arced fiercely down the T . . . and just missed. He was broken one last time, and, a couple of minutes later, Nadal had as many Grand Slam victories as his other great rival, Roger Federer.
There are no current rivalries in women’s tennis. For rivalries to develop, two or three or four of the best players have to be consistently great over a stretch of years and thus move on through tournaments to test one another in consequential matches. For years, Serena Williams simply dominated; Williams has arguably never had a rival, and she certainly hasn’t had one since her mid-aughts battles with Belgium’s Justine Henin. What women’s tennis does have today is depth: twenty or so of the top players are capable of making a run at any tournament. And the last couple of years have seen the arrival of a passel of young players with absorbing stories and engaging on-court personalities, who have made the women’s game more compelling week in and week out than the men’s.
Iga Swiatek (that’s ee-ga shvee-on-tek) is the latest: a nineteen-year-old from Poland, who arrived at Roland Garros ranked outside the W.T.A. Top 50 and in possession of no winner’s trophy on the tour of any kind. So why shouldn’t she clobber the No. 1 seed, Simona Halep, the best women’s clay-court player in the game, in the fourth round, 6–1, 6–2? Why shouldn’t she earn a place in the women’s final by never dropping a set, and never losing more than five games in a match? And why shouldn’t she keep playing at that level, a remarkable level, in the women’s final, defeating the young American Sofia Kenin, 6–4, 6–1, in less than ninety minutes?
Swiatek, who is listed at five-nine but seems taller, moves better laterally than most women her height. She already has a keen sense of anticipation, and fluent, adroit adjustment steps once she closes in on the ball. Her service return, too—usually the last thing a player develops—is formidable, and by the end of Saturday’s match she was intimidating Kenin with it, moving inside the baseline to smack second serves deep to the corners. Her biggest weapon, though, is her forehand. She strikes it with an extreme Western grip, under the racquet, like her idol growing up, Rafael Nadal. She doesn’t generate the protonic topspin that he does. (Nobody does.) But her forehand does loop down deep in the court, and, even with the clay on Chatrier yielding lower bounces, those bounces were shoulder high to Kenin, who, as a result, couldn’t step into enough of her groundstrokes. Swiatek, oddly, also has a way of bending her hitting arm and drawing it in toward her torso as she swings her forehand and vehemently torques—like a batter in baseball turning on an inside pitch. When she’s able to take an incoming ball out in front of her with that forehand swing, the angles she can achieve are impossibly acute. Swiatek hit twenty-five winners against Kenin, whose movement may have been impaired a bit by a left thigh that was taped the entire second week of the tournament, and which she had retaped twice during the final. But Kenin couldn’t wrestle control even of those points that didn’t find her on the run, especially in the second set. Swiatek was just too good off the ground, with steadiness in longer points to match her pace and topspinning heaviness, and too unperturbable, even in a moment as big as tennis provides. (She travels with a sports psychologist, and meditates during changeovers.)
Swiatek’s body language from the start was that of the champion she became. She is the first Polish player to win a major singles title. She is also the youngest French Open winner since . . . Rafa Nadal, in 2005. We can only hope that she and her talented young peers—among them Bianca Andreescu, who won the U.S. Open last year; Ash Barty, the 2019 French Open winner; Naomi Osaka, who won the U.S. Open last month, for her third major; and Kenin, too, who is only twenty-one and won the Australian Open this year—stay healthy and hatch a rivalry or two.
Will be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
The coronavirus has illuminated the stark divides in a global game—and spurred new efforts to bridge them.
By Louisa Thomas
With a change of tactics, Osaka came from behind to defeat Victoria Azarenka in a match that featured terrific hard-court baseline tennis.
By Gerald Marzorati
This fundamental stroke gives tennis stars their power. Louisa Thomas looks at what their distinctive forehands tell us about some of the best players in the game.
Sections
More
© 2020 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 1/1/20) and Your California Privacy Rights. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices