We may have waited from June when the event typically takes place, but we are proud to announce that Amazon Prime Day is finally here and it’s everything we hoped it would be and more.
Each year, the retailer hosts an epic discount day - or in more recent times two days - where they slash prices across a seemingly endless selection of products that Prime members can take full advantage of.
For 2020, it is taking place from October 13 to 14 for 48 hours of nothing but deals, deals and deals.
While tech tends to take a starring role in these sales, we are encouraging you not to dismiss the brand’s beauty selection.
The online retailer may be best known for books, gadgets and gizmos but hidden gems can often be sourced from its beauty pages. Makeup, skincare, fragrance, hair, body, shaving, nails and tools - Amazon plays host to it all. From smaller names to the biggest brands in the business, you are sure to find what you are looking for - and have it delivered the very next day.
If you’re looking for box dyes to give you locks a new colour transformation, see Clairol at a fraction of the cost. Suffering the effects of maskne or lockdown skin, Foreo and CeraVe are on hand with purse-friendly prices. On the hunt for your new signature scent? Jimmy Choo, Vera Wang, Armani and Calvin Klein may just do the job.
To make the most of these offers, you simply need to subscribe to Amazon Prime. It costs just £7.99 a month, £79 a year or you can take advantage of the retailer’s 30-day free trial period. Students are able to get their hands on the coveted membership for less at £3.99 a month. A Prime subscription gives you access to far more than just these epic discounts (although it is worth it for that alone). It includes Prime Video, a huge selection of ebooks and free next day delivery.
During the sales extravaganza, there will be different discounts on offer. Deals of the Day and Lightning deals will only be available for a limited time so hurry before it’s too late.
We will be constantly updating this page with the latest and greatest beauty discounts so bookmark it to avoid disappointment.
Whether you are finally investing in a new, electric toothbrush, want to upgrade your hot styling tools or looking for an innovative new form of hair removal, the Amazon Prime Day deals have got you covered.
Oral-B and Panasonic are giving you the chance to upgrade your timeworn toothbrush for the latest and greatest models with up to 65 per cent off. There are loads of models at every price point all heavily reduced.
Shop Oral-B hereShop Philips here
We may be going into winter but now is the time to try out that mode of hair removal that you've been researching. Whether it's an epilator, shaver, razor or even an at-home IPL machine, there are discounts across the lot with up to 70 per cent off.
When GHD first launched its Glide Hot Brush, it sold out immediately and now you can shop it with 32 per cent off. There's also various straightening and curl-making devices from Remmington and Babyliss with up to 66 per cent.
Take your flossing game to the next level with these powerful devices that are up to 65 per cent off.
Need a new Tangle Teezer or hairbrush? No problem. The brand has got you covered with up to 50 per cent off.
See all the Tangle Teezer offers here
Cruelty-free and vegan brush brand EcoTools is offering sets with up to 50 per cent off.
See all the EcoTools offers here
Channel your inner technician with your very own gel kit courtesy of Mylee. For the Amazon Prime Day event, there is up to 30 per cent off on everything you need to create beautiful and long-lasting looks at home.

See all the Mylee offers here
Fans of the extensive OPI shade range will obsess over these prices where you can get the brand's best-selling and autumn-ready shades with up to 30 per cent off.
See all the OPI offers here
Get the Rimmel look for less with up to 30 per cent off the London-born brand. The offer extends to nails as well as makeup.
See all the Rimmel offers here
There's a reason why Aussie has a loyal following and now you can get in on the action for less. The hair-boosting range is up to 30 per cent off and includes shampoo, conditioner and masks.
See all the Aussie offers here
There is up to 30 per cent off Cantu that will become a godsend for curly haired people everywhere. The offer extends to masks and conditioners.
See all the Cantu offers here
Stock up on a lifetime supply of shampoo and conditioner from natural beauty brand Faith in Nature. Save the planet and your pennies at the same time with less plastic and up to 30 per cent off. You can get the hair washing essentials in a range of fragrances.
See all the Faith in Nature offers here
Add these John Frieda shampoo and conditioner products to your basket while they're on offer and have supplies so you are never left in the lurch. The offer includes these essentials for all different hair types; coloured, fine, dehydrated or in need of a nourishing boost.
See all the John Frieda offers here
Backstage favourite KMS is reduced by up to 30 per cent in the Amazon Prime Day. The discounts is on moulding paste, conditioner, shampoo, wax and creams.
See all the KMS offers here
Save up to 50 per cent on TRESemme on the likes of shampoo, conditioner, gift sets and bundles.
See all the Tresemme offers here
Treat your skin to the nourishing boost it deserves without breaking the bank.
After months of sanitiser, our hands could use some TLC and Burt's Bees has us covered with up to 55 per cent off a whole host of items including hand cream. There's gift sets, lip balms, foot cream and more.

See all the Burt's Bees offers here
Direct from the US, CeraVe is here to solve your maskne woes and is on offer with up to 55 per cent off.
See all the CeraVe offers here
Those with sensitive skin, get in on the action with up to 55% off Cetaphil.
See all the Cetaphil offers here
Pamper yourself guilt-free with up to 30 per cent off Cowshed.
See all the Cowshed offers here
There's an extensive selection of Elemis products on offer this Amazon Prime Day with up to 30 per cent off. You can get your hands on the Frangipani, Pro-Collagen, and Superfood ranges with a purse-friendly discount.
See all the Elemis offers here
Luxury skincare label Elizabeth Arden is offering its makeup and skincare must-haves with up to 30 per cent off.
See all the Elizabeth Arden offers here
There is up to 30 per cent on Neal's Yard's hero products including shower gels, face wash, oils and gift sets.
See all the Neal's Yard offers here
Featuring powerhouse ingredients like retinol, salicylic acid and glycolic, there's up to 55 per cent off skincare from Nip+Fab.
See all the Nip+Fab offers here
Get up to 55 per cent off Olay Skincare. The products are packed with anti-ageing benefits and innovative ingredients.
See all the Olay offers here
From fragrances, to moisturisers via shower gels, there's a whole host of pampering Philosophy products on offer with up to 30 per cent off.

See all the philosophy offers here
Get your Christmas gifting sorted early with the help of Sanctuary Spa who is offering 50 per cent off sets.
See all the Sanctuary Spa offers here
Amazon's in-house brand Solimo has got you covered with all the everyday essentials - and it is now available for even more purse-friendly prices with up to 30 per cent off. There' suncare, razors, antiperspirants and body care to add straight to basket.
See all the Solimo offers here
The importance of sleep cannot be stressed enough and for those who struggle, This Works is on hand with its cult pillow spray to help you nod off with ease - and it's 30 per cent off.
See all the This Works offers here
Transform your home into a luxury spa with Tisserand's mood-boosting products.
See all the Tisserand Aromatherapy offers here
Men's grooming label Woody's is offering savings on its hair and beard essentials with up to 50 per cent off.
See all the Woody's offers here
Get ready to experiment with all-new makeup heroes at more purse-friendly prices.
When Lady Gaga announced her makeup range, it delighted little monsters everywhere and now you can get key products from the range with up to 30 per cent off.
HAUS LABORATORIES by Lady Gaga: LIQUID EYE-LIE-NER - was: £14.50, now: £12.60
See all the Haus Laboratories offers here
You can get this innovative product form legendary lipstick label with up to 30 per cent off. It adapts to the pigment in your lips to create a custom shade.
LIPSTICK QUEEN Shade Shifting Lipstick - was: £22, now: £13
See all the Lipstick Queen offers here
You can get just about any L'Oreal product on Amazon during this Prime event with up to 40 per cent off.
See all the L'Oreal offers here
Drugstore favourite makeup label Max Factor is on offer with up to 50 per cent off.
See all the Max Factor offers here
With an extensive range of shades to choose from, there is up to 50 per cent off makeup essentials from Maybelline.
See all the Maybelline offers here
Try this miracle RapidBrow formulation for less with 46 per cent off.
RapidBrow Eye Brow Enhancing Serum - was: £25.90
See all the RapidBrow offers here
Find your new signature scent or stock up on your classics with up to 60 per cent off.
See all the fragrance offers here