It's an epic time for gamers everywhere with the release of new consoles from Xbox and Playstation as well as the eagerly anticipated unveiling of FIFA 21 - but we have got some news that may well just blow all these events out the water. Amazon Prime Day is finally here.
While the two-day discount event typically takes place in June, it is set for October 13 and 14 and it promises to be even bigger and better than last year.
Whether you are looking for laptops, TVs, headphones or Amazon devices, there’s deals for everything but we think this year’s crop of gaming deals deserve your attention.
The online retailer is treating customers to huge reductions across consoles, games and an accessories galore.
Get in on the action by subscribing to Amazon Prime. This huge sale, free next day delivery, Prime Video and a huge selection of e-books can now be yours at just £7.99 a month, £79 a year or make the most of the 30-day free trial. PSA for students, Prime can be yours for the low cost of just £3.99 a month.
Bookmark this page for the best deals on gaming to treat yourself or your loved one to a pre-Christmas present.
There are next-level savings across Nintendo Switch consoles in both turquoise and grey hues. There are also discounts on bundles with both the aforementioned Nintendo models as well as Xbox One S and refurbished Xbox One Xs.
Grabbing a cheaper Nintendo Switch is a dream come true to many who might've been without one during the height of the coronavirus lockdown in the UK.
Switch's sold out almost everywhere with demand for the console, and the launch of Animal Crossing: New Horizons, sent sales through the roof leaving many retailers without stock.
The brand new Xbox Series X and S consoles, and Sony's PlayStation 5 is set to launch November, and a lot of the new games headed for these next-generation consoles will be playable on current-generation systems as well.
Obviously, by today's standards, the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are rather old now and when you consider the new, incredibly impressive next-generation consoles are our in just over a month's time, you might want to stay your wallet.
Get your hands on some of the most sought-after games for less. The likes of Assassins Creed, LEGO and Mortal Kombat are available with up to 20 per cent off.
Far Cry 5 is on sale for a steal of £14, so this would be the perfect time to grab it especially considering the impending release of Far Cry 6 coming to next-generation consoles sometime next year.
If you've yet to pick up a copy of The Witcher 3: The Wild Hunt, which is widely regarded as one of the best open-world games out there, then this Game of the Year version which comes with all the extra downloadable content is the one for you.
Not to mention, the developers of the game, CD Projekt Red, has recently announced that people who own the PlayStation 4 or Xbox One versions of the game will get an enhanced version of the game for free to play on the Microsoft's and Sony's new consoles: the Xbox Series X/S and the PlayStation 5.
Get in on the discount action with games for PS4 devices. There is a truly extensive offering Grand Theft Auto V, Assassin's Creed and even LittleBigPlanet 3.
The best thing about the PS4 is, of course, its exclusive titles which are notoriously expensive when they first release.
During this time, you'll be able to grab yourself excellent games like Horizon Zero Dawn, Uncharted 4 and XXXX (The Last of Us or Ghost of Tsushima if available), which are all blockbuster experiences in their own right.
For PC players, there's Football Manager as well as CoreGrafx Mini that is preloaded with 50 epic games.
The discounts on the Nintendo Switch offering should certainly be on your radar. Highlights include Just Dance 2020, Jumanji: The Video Game and LEGO.
Switch games continue to be expensive so whenever they go on sale is a time to rejoice for us Switch lovers, but unfortunately, the main lineup of games you might expect are tragically missing from this list.
It would be excellent to see games like Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild or Mario Kart 8 come on sale once in a while!
Either way, you'll get a lot of mileage out of Rayman Legends, as well as some genuine strategy fun with Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle.
Enhance the gaming experience with state-of-the-art tech like a new mouse, keyboards and the latest and greatest headsets so you can play alongside your pals.
Looking for a headset which will offer you the best experience when playing with friends online? Or are you looking for one more geared towards single-player titles? You'll have plenty of choice with these selections below.
Affordable gaming headsets with a good microphone are hard to come by, so if you're looking for one to use in online play make sure you've done your research.
 How to access Amazon Prime Day deals and 2020 sales 
laptops
TVs
headphones
Amazon devices
Best Amazon Prime Day laptop deals: Chromebook and Macbook offers
Best Amazon Prime Day baby deals: offers on toys and baby products
Amazon Prime Day 2020: date confirmed and the best deals to expect