Sky Sports and BT Sport Box Office will charge fans £14.95 on top of their existing subscriptions
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Gary Neville has hit out at the Premier League for their move to charge fans £14.95 to watch individual games in October.
The former Manchester United defender and pundit responded after the announcement of the “interim solution” to make all games in October available to watch live on television in the UK - with Neville’s employer Sky Sports providing a Box Office platform along with BT Sport.
The charge will be on top of existing subscriptions to television channels, with the profits from the move to go directly to the clubs, who combined to spend £1.2 billion during the latest transfer window.
Neville wrote: “This is a really bad move by the Premier League to charge £14.95 for single matches that have been shown free for 6 months!”
It follow an official statement, which read: "The Premier League today confirmed all fixtures until the end of October will continue to be made available to fans to watch live in the UK.
"Under these new arrangements, the current live match selections will remain in place and will be broadcast as normal.
“In addition, the five matches per round not already selected will be made available to supporters on a pay-per-view basis, accessed via BT Sport Box Office and Sky Sports Box Office platforms.”
Fans who already have season tickets or memberships will also not be given codes to watch the games for free.
Pay-per-view games 17-19 October
Chelsea vs Southampton
Leicester vs Aston Villa
Newcastle vs Man United
Sheffield United vs Fulham
West Brom vs Burnley
Gary Neville says Man United have been 'appalling' in the transfer window
Getty Images
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
