Bargain hunters everywhere, we have good news.
The Amazon Prime Day sale is finally and here and the fashion offering should be on your radar.
Taking place on October 13, the retailer’s mega discount day will once again be extended for an entire 48 hours of reductions across all sectors from tech and home, to beauty and fashion.
While it typically takes place in June, due to the global pandemic, Amazon had to postpone the event but it's finally here and it was worth waiting for.
Amazon may not be your first port of call when you’re looking for new garments but the hidden away in its extensive offering is veritable gems set to elevate your smart to casual wardrobe.
The site plays host to an extensive selection of big name clothing brands like Calvin Klein, Adidas, Levi’s New Look. For shoes, Adidas, Clarks, Timberland and Puma to name but a few. On the jewellery and watch front, you can find Swarovski, Olivia Burton and Timex. The retailer even has in-house labels; find. for your everyday pieces, Meraki for super soft lingerie and loungewear and Truth & Fable for occasionwear and that only just scratches the surface.
Whether you are shopping for yourself, your partner, your kids or just about anyone, check out Amazon’s selection of men’s, women’s, children’s and baby clothing, shoes and accessories - now on offer as part of the Prime Day sales.
As mentioned above from October 13-14, you will be able to take advantage of epic discounts but there is one catch, you must be a Prime member. This entails a monthly subscription of £7.99 a month, an annual fee of £79 or you can make the most of a 30-day free trial. Membership will get you free next day delivery across an impressive selection of products as well as access to Prime Video and a rotating selection of ebooks. Student discounts apply and will get you access for only £3.99 a month.
There are a variety of deals on offer - Deals of the Day and Lightning - which run for a fixed time throughout the two day event so act fast to nab the best discounts. We’ll be keeping you updated right here.
See the best fashion deals on Amazon Prime Day here across clothing, shoes and jewellery. Shop the most impressive discounts by brand.
Cult denim label Levi's is offering up to 30 per cent off this Prime Day across the signature 501 jeans as well as jumpers, t-shirts and more.
See all Levi's clothing on offer
There is up to 30 per cent off Boss for men and women that extends to dressing gowns, accessories like belts, shorts, trousers, swim shorts, jackets, chinos and more for all your smart or casual needs. The pieces are offered in a range of neutral hues, from grey to green.
See all Boss clothing on offer
Womenwear, menswear and childrenswear have been painted with the discount brush at Tommy Hilfiger with up to 30 per cent off. There are jeans, underwear, jumpers, blouses, shirts and more on offer.
See all Tommy Hilfiger clothing on offer
In need of new jeans for yourself, partner or little ones? Check out Pepe Jeans' offering at Amazon that is reduced by up to 30 per cent. There's also t-shirts in all colours, swimwear, and denim in all shapes and sizes.
See all Pepe Jeans clothing on offer
There is an epic up to 50 per cent off Amazon's in-house fashion brands; find, Meraki and Truth & Fable.
See all find. clothing on offer
See all Meraki clothing on offer
See all Truth & Fable clothing on offer
Amazon's own brand lingerie label Iris & Lilly has up to 40 per cent off.
See all Iris & Lilly clothing on offer
There is really no better time to stock up on your Calvins as the brand is up to 30 per cent off on both men's and women's essentials. Shop bundle packs of two or more boxers or knickers as well as nightwear and bralettes. There's also just really handy basics like joggers and tracksuits that you will be sure to live in throughout working from home and beyond.
See all Calvin Klein on offer
Beloved for its comfortable shapes, Sloggi will give your underwear collection an instant boost. You can shop sets and individual pieces with up to 30 per cent off during Prime Day. The range is offered for men and women and there are multi-packs available.
See all Sloggi underwear on offer
Get up to 30 per cent off comfortable, supportive and sexy bras over at Triumph. The discounts are offered on a range of silhouettes, styles - whether you are looking for a special occasions or everyday set - as well as the brand's broad size range.
See all Triumph underwear on offer
The clue is in the name. This lingerie brand works wonders. It is on offer with up to 30 per cent off on all silhouettes; balconette, push up, padded, non-padded, strapless and triangle as well as knickers, and briefs.
See all Wonderbra underwear on offer
Upgrade your sneaker game with Adidas. The sportswear giants will be up to 30 per cent off across men's and women's trainers and you may even spot a couple of apparel bargains.
See all adidas shoes on offer
There is up to 30 per cent off men' shoes at Camper.
See all Camper shoes on offer
Street style sneaker regulars Cat Footwear has up to 30 per cent off statement men's and women's trainers.
See all Cat Footwear shoes on offer
Get ready for your winter adventuring with Columbia and its impressive 30 per cent off men's and women's shoes on Amazon.
See all Columbia shoes on offer
The divisive footwear label Crocs has some of the most comfortable clogs in the game and they're on offer with up to 30 per cent off. The models are unisex and offered in a huge variety of colours.
See all Crocs shoes on offer
With the signature Disrupter silhouette included in the discounts, you can get up to 30 per cent of men's and women's trainers at Fila.
See all Fila shoes on offer
Kid's, men's and women's shoes at Geox are on offer with up to 30 per cent off.
See all Geox shoes on offer
Whether we'll be able to head off for some winter sun or you're preparing for next summer, there's 30 per cent off Havaianas in all colours and all sizes.
See all Havaianas shoes on offer
We love the timeless and universally appealing Keds shoes and they are up to 30 per cent off this Amazon Prime Day.
See all Keds shoes on offer
From smart to casual shoes, get up to 30 per cent on Kickers for kids and adults.
See all Kickers shoes on offer
Trekking, walking, running or simply fashion, get the right shoes, boots and trainers for the occasion at Merrel with up to 30 per cent off.
See all Merrell shoes on offer
Get winter footwear ready with the help of Muck Boots and the purse-friendly 30 per cent off discount.
See all Muck Boots shoes on offer
There is up to 30 per cent off New Balance men's and women's shoes and trainers.
See all New Balance shoes on offer
With a seemingly endless selection on offer, there is up to 30 per cent off Puma. Whether you are looking for men's, women's or shoes for your little ones, you will be able to find the style and colour combination to suit.
See all Puma shoes on offer
Renowned running shoe label Salomon has up to 30 per cent off its must-have range at Amazon.
See all Salomon shoes on offer
Footwear brand Sorel has got you covered whether you are adventuring or simply staying home. With trainers, boots and slippers to choose from, you can get your hands on the brand with up to 30 per cent off.
See all Sorel shoes on offer
Elevate your white or multi-coloured sneaker collection with the help of the 30 per cent discount at Superga on Amazon.
See all Superga shoes on offer
Always wanted a pair of Timberland boots? Now is your chance to get 30 per cent off the style as part of the Amazon Prime Day sales.
See all Timberland shoes on sale here
There is up to 30 per cent off Under Armour shoe for men and women.
See all Under Armour shoes on sale here
The discounts at Vans on Amazon extends so much further than just clothing, it's also on the range of best-selling shoes, including classic Low-Top sneakers. Clothing-wise, check out the t-shirts, sweatshirts and hoodies for girls, boys, and just about anyone.
See all Vans shoes on sale here
With brands like Swarovski, Fossil and more, there is up to 30 per cent off sparkling statement jewellery pieces at Amazon.
Shop all Swarovski jewellery on sale here
Shop all Fossil jewellery on sale here
Deals to watch. You can get up to 50 per cent of big name brands like Michael Kors, Fossil, Diesel, Emporio Armani, Olivia Burton, Skagen,Swarovski, Tommy Hilfiger and Timex.
Shop all watches on sale here
Shop all Timex watches on sale here