At least 14 games from now until the end of October will only be available on BT Sport Box Office and Sky Sports Box Office
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
BT Sport and Sky Sports have been urged to reconsider the £14.95 price to watch Premier League games on pay-per-view from next week.
At least 14 games from now until the end of October will only be available on BT Sport Box Office and Sky Sports Box Office. Current Sky Sports and BT Sport subscribers will not be entitled to any discount and nor will club season-ticket holders.
In a statement, the Football Supporters’ Association said: "We've … already heard from many supporters and FSA members who are concerned about the £15 per game being charged and we'd urge BT Sport and Sky Sports to reconsider their pricing for these games."
The FSA has been lobbying the Premier League for every match to be broadcast live on UK television while games remain behind closed doors.
It added: "Today's announcement [ by the Premier League] shows that fan power works. At the start of this season the Premier League and its broadcasters had planned to leave match-going fans entirely locked out of their side's matches; now thanks to the sustained pressure of our #LetUsWatch campaign all games will be available for fans.
“Many Premier League clubs have already taken money from fans, particularly season ticket holders, for matches they can't attend so we urge them to get refunds out to those supporters as soon as possible.”
Every Premier League match in October will be televised in the UK
PA
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
