
FOX Sports will launch a dedicated 24/7 Bathurst channel ahead of the Bathurst 1000 next weekend.
It will screen every session Live including the Top Ten Shootout and the Great Race Live in HD and ad-break free during racing on Foxtel channel 506 via Foxtel GO, Foxtel Now and Kayo.
Steve Crawley, Executive Director, FOX Sports, said: “On the back of last year’s record ratings, our team, headed by Jess Yates and Mark Skaife are really looking forward to getting back to the mountain. So many fans won’t be lucky enough to be there and we will endeavour to do everything possible to bring them closer than ever before to the great race and its superstars. Only on Foxtel, do you not miss a second of the Bathurst 1000 and all the race action around it. Our dedicated Bathurst 1000 Channel begins Monday October 12 and runs all week.”
Before racing begins at Mount Panorama on Sunday, October 18 the pop-up Bathurst channel will feature a day-long tribute to Holden and their Bathurst victories on Monday, October 12, plus every Supercars era race, and access to the biggest stars in the sport available nowhere else.
At Mt. Panorama in 2020, the best commentary team in Supercars will assemble on FOX Sports with Bathurst legends Craig Lowndes and Mark Skaife hosted by Jess Yates, giving Foxtel audiences exclusive insight and analysis.
Then covering every Live Supercars session will be Supercars commentator Neil Crompton, technical analyst Mark Larkham and pit lane reporters Riana Crehan and Andy Jones.
Dedicated 24/7 Bathurst Channel line-up/highlights:
From Monday, October 12 from 2.30am – Holden tribute – Ahead of the last Bathurst race for the Holden brand Fox Sports will pay tribute to the Lion’s victories on the mountain, when the dedicated channel switches on for the first time. Viewers can relive their seven victories-in-a-row from 1999-2005 and legendary drivers Mark Skaife, Greg Murphy and Garth Tander, before Craig Lowndes and Jamie Whincup in the last decade.
Tuesday, October 13 and Wednesday, October 14 – All the classic races from plus Bathurst documentaries of the best races ever seen on the mountain.
Thursday, October 15 from 8.55am – We’re Live from the mountain for the first time in 2019 as Jess Yates, Mark Skaife, and Craig Lowndes preview the big weekend ahead.
The cars will hit the track for Practice and Neil Crompton and Mark Skaife will be behind the microphone for every Supercars session, with Jess Yates covering all the big talking points from the panel. Plus, special guests to feature across the weekend.
Friday, October 16 from 8.35am – Qualifying. On track the action heats up when every driver goes flat out around the mountain in Qualifying at 4.00pm. Then the teams go head-to-head in pitlane for the Golden Rattle Gun Trophy in the Pirtek Pit Stop Challenge at 5.30pm.
Saturday, October 17 at 5.00pm – Top Ten Shootout. Heroes are made when the 10 fastest drivers get one lap to show who really is the fastest man in Supercars. From Greg Murphy’s ‘Lap of the Gods’ in 2003 to Scott McLaughlin’s new lap record in 2017, this is a session not to be missed. Who will it be in 2020?
Sunday, October 18 – Race day: coverage from 8.00am, race start 11.30am – it’s time for 1000km ad-break free only on FOX Sports. Who will conquer the mountain in 2020?
Tags: Bathurst 1000
Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
© 2020 TV Tonight. WordPress Website Development & Design by DMC Web