Today (October 12) is Columbus / Indigenous Peoples' Day and what better reason to get some retail therapy in while you're off from work for the day.
Americans in 21 states, plus the District of Columbia, have the day off paid, but retailers remain open. Banks and financial organizations close, as does the U.S. Postal Service. However, the financial stock markets and some couriers remain open and operational.
So whether you're after something snug for winter, a new mattress for your Fall-themed bedroom or need to stock up on some sports gear, there's a deal for everyone this federal holiday.
Discount and coupon website Don't Pay Full have provided the below deals just in time for Columbus Day.
TBDRESS: Get $12 off orders over $109 in the Columbus Day sale. Use code "CO12."
Event Decor Direct: Get yourself 15 percent off all order over $49 in the Columbus Day sale. You can use code "CDAY15."
Silver Rush Style: Bag yourself 60 percent off all jewelry on Columbus Day.
Femail Creations: There is 10 percent off sitewide in the Columbus Day sale. Use code "PJO1911F" at checkout.
Flag Shirt: Up to 70 percent off Patriotic Clothing on Columbus Day.
Nike: Make sure to get your winter workout gear with up to 40 percent off sale styles.
Boutique Rugs: Get 60 percent off any purchase using code "COL60."
Other deals for Columbus Day include:
Amerisleep: For a limited time, the retailer is offering 30 percent off all mattresses as well as free pillows. Just use code "FALL30" at checkout.
PlushBeds: This luxury bedding brand specializing in organic mattresses is offering sales until October 19 with code "PLUSH2020." You can also get 20 percent off toppers, bedding and furniture.
CBD Pillow: This maker of this relaxing pillow is offering 10 percent off your entire order until October 17 with code "SAVE10."
Academy Sports and Outdoors: Until October 17, families can stock up on cold-weather essentials with $20 off select Columbia fleece. Fleece from Nike, Under Armour and Adidas will also start at $45. Finally, Academy will offer up to 30 percent off top footwear brands, including Brooks, Asics and Adidas.
RetailMeNot has a selection of deals for October 2020 here. A round up of some of the most prominent brands are below:
Target: Not specific to Columbus Day itself, the retailer is having up to 50 percent off selected items.
William and Sonoma: Get 15 percent off your next order via RetailMeNot.
Home Depot: The home retailer is having up to 40 percent across the store.
Pottery Barn: Sign up to the brand's email newsletter and get 15 percent off.
JC Penny: Another code via RetailMeNot, get 15 percent off on your next order.
Lowe's: Get five percent cash back on lawn and garden orders, via RetailMeNot.
Newsweek has affiliate partnerships. If you make a purchase using our links, we may earn a share of the sale.
You have 4 free articles remaining this month
Sign-up to our daily newsletter for more articles like this + access to 5 extra articles
To continue reading login or create an account.
 No subscription required.
See why nearly a quarter of a million subscribers begin their day with the Starting 5.
© 2020 NEWSWEEK DIGITAL LLC