To revisit this article, select My⁠ ⁠Account, then View saved stories.
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
By Louisa Thomas
The 2019-20 N.B.A. season ended as everyone always knew it would: in Lake Buena Vista, Florida, in October, with J. R. Smith taking off his shirt. When that happened, the game, in which the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Miami Heat, 106–93, to win the championship, was not officially over—but this time even Smith could be forgiven for forgetting the clock. After three months of living inside a bubble within the Walt Disney World Resort, at the end of a season that swerved from one crisis and catastrophe to another, everyone was impatient to be done. The Heat, for their part, seemed halfway home well before halftime.
After the game, the championship trophy was rolled onto the stage, nestled, for some reason, in a blue-velvet-lined Louis Vuitton suitcase. Presenting it, the commissioner, Adam Silver, gestured at the big picture—to the attention that the players had directed toward social justice, and to the remarkably virus-free bubble the league had created, without any players or team personnel testing positive for the coronavirus. But the scene felt more goofy than grave. Children clustered behind Silver, reaching toward the trophy; Dwight Howard was present. The Lakers’ head coach, Frank Vogel, shouted a few words about defense, as if trying to pump up a crowd that wasn’t there.
LeBron James hung back. Perhaps he was letting others enjoy the moment, that first cool touch of trophy metal. Perhaps he simply knew that his moment was coming, the announcement of Finals M.V.P. It was his fourth championship title, with his third team. He has been to the N.B.A. Finals nine of the past ten years. He is thirty-five years old. There is gray in his beard now—not that you could tell when he was bursting through Miami’s defense, a blur on his way to the basket, throwing down dunks and moonwalking through the air. He finished the game with an easy triple-double: twenty-eight points, fourteen rebounds, and ten assists.
No player, perhaps, had as much riding on the success of the bubble as James. Still, he was, as he tends to be, gracious: as he accepted the award, he shared a moment with his teammate Anthony Davis, whom he had recruited to Los Angeles. During the playoffs, Davis had been almost as unworldly as James, if not quite as consistent; Davis’s offensive stat line for the night wasn’t as impressive, but he had so thoroughly dominated the Heat defensively that they seemed hesitant to come near him—which caused all kinds of problems for Miami, since Davis seemed to be everywhere. Earlier, James had spoken about the lack of jealousy or rivalry between himself and Davis: each, he said, was fully invested in the success of the other. This is the sort of comment that’s always more persuasive when you’re winning. Tonight, it was very persuasive.
And it doubled as a tacit acknowledgement that greatness is never truly individual. James needed Davis. He needed Rajon Rondo, too. He even needed the Heat’s Jimmy Butler, a worthy if ultimately overwhelmed challenger. Did he need J. R. Smith, too? Only James knows for sure. But, first and foremost, he needed a functioning league—in 2020, that means an organization that can keep a deadly virus at bay. The N.B.A. performed tens of thousands of coronavirus tests over the course of the seeding games and the playoffs. There were countless rules about masks and where people could stand, what they could do. The financial expense was more than a hundred and fifty million dollars, ESPN reported. The emotional costs were clearly high, too. There were moments when players wondered aloud whether it was worth it—whether playing basketball could justify so much effort when there was so much suffering outside the bubble, caused not only by the virus but by ongoing racial injustice. There was a day when that question brought everything to a halt. And there were days when the question seemed, if not answered, exactly, then briefly put to rest. Sometimes excellence seems to justify itself. Few players have demonstrated that as well as James.
Will be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
Davis is sometimes described as a “unicorn,” but he’s really more of a sphinx.
By Louisa Thomas
After James became basketball’s biggest global superstar, the league seemed to mold itself in his image. But no one rules forever.
By Louisa Thomas
After the theme park’s reopening earlier this summer, visitors have weighed the pros and cons of going while coronavirus rates remain high in Florida.
Sections
More
© 2020 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 1/1/20) and Your California Privacy Rights. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices