The state government has pulled a sports grant from Moreland Council while it investigates a funding application to rip up a grass oval and replace it with a synthetic turf soccer pitch.
Earlier this week, The Age reported that Coburg North residents were blindsided by plans to turf over the northern oval at Hosken Reserve and add LED lighting and low fencing.
Most residents learned of the plans days before the council went into caretaker mode ahead of local government elections, and community anger forced Moreland chief executive Cathy Henderson to acknowledge there had not been appropriate consultation since 2009.
Locals at Hosken Reserve in Coburg North.Credit:Justin McManus
On Friday, Community Sport Minister Ros Spence said she was withholding the $500,000 grant and launching a review of the council's application under the $4.9 million World Game Facilities Fund.
"I have instructed my department, Sport and Recreation Victoria, to conduct an immediate review into Moreland City Council's funding application at Hosken Reserve and report back to me by the end of the month," Ms Spence said in a statement.
“As a result, the $500,000 in funding will be withheld pending the findings of the review.”
Moreland Council, which applied for the state government grant in March, has committed another $900,000 towards the project. Pascoe Vale Football Club will add $50,000.
As part of the assessment criteria for the grant, applicants were required to "detail the consultation process undertaken with the community and project stakeholders, and its outcomes, to demonstrate support for the project and proposed outcomes".
There were 177 responses to the 2009 survey of neighbouring households, council documents show.
An agenda item from 2016 reveals that the oval was, at that stage, going to remain grass and that a smaller training area in the north-east of the reserve would be covered in synthetic grass.
Moreland councillor Sue Bolton, who is from the Socialist Alliance and is up for re-election, said councillors have been kept in the dark.
"Somewhere along the lines the plans have changed without coming back to council in a way in which councillors can make informed decisions and without any public consultation," Cr Bolton said earlier this week.
Minutes from the 2009 council decisions are not publicly available and have not been provided to councillors, she said.
The council CEO last week told councillors and candidates that the project had been part of capital works plans approved by council for years.
"However, residents near Hosken Park would not have been aware of the proposed synthetic pitch unless they participated in the 2009 consultation process, or unless they checked recent consultation documents in detail," Ms Henderson said.
She said it was unfortunate that the plans were not accessible on the council website.
"In my view, it would have been preferable that recent consultation occurred with local residents about changes planned for Hosken Reserve (north). Council's community and engagement and public participation policy would suggest that such consultation should have occurred. I acknowledge the frustration and disappointment felt by local residents."
Tatiana Stephens and daughter Elfie with unhappy locals at Hosken Reserve.Credit:Justin McManus
Almost 2500 have signed a change.org petition to keep Hosken Reserve accessible for all.
The synthetic pitch would host up to 70 hours of soccer a week and would be open to the public outside of formal games and training.
Lou Tona, president of Pascoe Vale FC, said residents would not be locked out of the park by the 1.2-metre high fence.
"We want to align ourselves with the community," Mr Tona said. "There's sufficient parkland for everyone to get their daily exercise, to cater for the whole community and the club."
Moreland Council released the tender on September 19. The tender will close on October 13 and will be considered by councillors after the election.
Construction is expected to begin in January.
Four years ago, Moreland Council also invested in a stormwater project to water the grass at Hosken Reserve.
There is already an enclosed soccer field at the southern end of Hosken Reserve.
A Moreland Council spokeswoman said she was unable to comment during caretaker period.
Rachel is a city reporter for The Age.
Copyright © 2020