Sky and BT Sport will host games on their box office channels costing £14.95
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
Football fans will have to pay £14.95 per match to watch certain televised games from next weekend after the Premier League revealed a controversial new pay-per-view model to boost club finances. 
At least 14 matches will be televised behind paywalls on BT Sport Box Office and Sky Sports Box Office, and the fee will be required regardless of whether viewers are current Sky and BT Sport subscribers or club season-ticket holders. 
All profits will go to Premier League clubs and not the broadcasters. 
Until now, every Premier League match since lockdown ended has been televised in the UK across Sky Sports, BT Sport, Amazon Prime Video and BBC while games remain behind closed doors.
Sky Sports pundit Gary Neville tweeted: “This is a really bad move by the @premierleague to charge £14.95 for single matches that have been shown free for 6 months!”
A Premier League statement read: "The Premier League today confirmed all fixtures until the end of October will continue to be made available to fans to watch live in the UK. Under these new arrangements, the current live match selections will remain in place and will be broadcast as normal. In addition, the five matches per round not already selected will be made available to supporters on a pay-per-view basis, accessed via BT Sport Box Office and Sky Sports Box Office platforms.
"Clubs today agreed this interim solution to enable all fans to continue to watch their teams live. The Premier League has worked closely with Sky Sports and BT Sport to provide this arrangement and is grateful for their support. The  agreement will be regularly reviewed in consultation with clubs and in line with any decisions made by Government regarding the return of spectators to stadiums. Football is not the same without supporters at matches. 
“The Premier League and our clubs remain committed to the safe return of fans as soon as possible. An updated broadcast list of matches will be announced later today.”
Saturday 17 October
Chelsea vs Southampton, 3pm BST
Sheffield United vs Fulham, 3pm
Newcastle vs Manchester United, 8pm (Sky Sports)
Sunday 18 October
Leicester vs Aston Villa, 7.45pm (Sky Sports)
Monday 19 October
West Brom vs Burnley, 5.30pm (Sky Sports)
Saturday 24 October
Aston Villa vs Leeds
Brighton vs West Brom
Fulham vs Crystal Palace
Liverpool vs Sheffield United 
Saturday 31 October
Aston Villa vs Southampton
Burnley vs Chelsea
Fulham vs West Brom
Spurs vs Brighton
Wolves vs Crystal Palace
Premier League football will fall behind a paywall
PA
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
