Premier Gladys Berejiklian and former Wagga Wagga MP Daryl Maguire discussed their possible future together, his million-dollar debt and business dealings in phone calls played before an inquiry.
On Monday, the Independent Commission Against Corruption heard several phone conversations between the pair from 2017 and 2018, including one in which Mr Maguire said he used Ms Berejiklian's Parliament House office foyer to help racing heir Louise Raedler Waterhouse sort out a planning issue affecting her land.
Former MP Daryl Maguire, left, and NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian at the Independent Commission Against Corruption on Monday.Credit: 
In a phone call dated October 2017, Mr Maguire told Ms Berejiklian: "[Ms Raedler Waterhouse]'s got a big problem so I took her up to your office and said, 'Here can you help solve it.'"
"She’s got a lot of property out at Badgerys Creek and the Planning Department right, and, and RMS [Roads and Maritime Services] and all them are saying, 'Look you know, we don’t want to plan that now, we’re too busy worrying about you know, the new housing and all this around Badgerys Creek'.
"And she's saying, 'But you know, I need a road, I need an access, give me an access. I'll develop it myself, I don't need you.' And they're resisting."
He added: "So I got Roads, I got Jock to come down and I got, one bloke from your place there, got them to put their heads together and said, 'Look, why can't you fix this.'"
Ms Berejiklian responds several times to Mr Maguire with: "Mmm".
After listening to the call, Ms Berejiklian told the inquiry on Monday: "I have no recollection of that, but I don't deny that it may have occurred, but I don't remember that conversation."
Replay

ICAC has spent the past three weeks investigating Mr Maguire’s attempts to broker property deals and seek commission on behalf of a Chinese developer.
Ms Berejiklian is not accused of any wrongdoing.
The hearing was also played a call that made reference to Mr Maguire's interest in "Badgerys Creek stuff," around a time he estimated personal debts of $1.5 million.
For at least one land sale, ICAC has previously heard he stood to gain a generous commission, potentially impacting whether or not he could resign from Parliament.
In a conversation recorded in September 2017, Mr Maguire said "it looks like we finally got the Badgerys Creek stuff done, that's good, mmm. I'll be glad when that's done 'cause I'll make enough money to pay off my debts, which would be good. Can you believe it, in one sale."
Ms Berejiklian responded: "I can believe it."
Replay

Mr Maguire then added: "Mmm, yep. I only want to pay off the house, that's all I want to get rid of ... having me debt free, the rest of it I don't care about. I'm happy to have as much investment debt as I can possibly have. I just want to get rid of the bad debt."
In another phone call that month, Mr Maguire told Ms Berejiklian he was getting a "big tax return" and was "very happy about that".
Ms Berejiklian responded, "Oh well, that's good. You won't be ... saying you are poor then for maybe a week and then you'll start saying it again."
Mr Maguire said: "No well I am poor, I am telling you, $1.59 million poor.
"Just repeat after me, $1.5 million."
To which Ms Berejiklian said: "I'm not going to say any such thing."
In two separate phone calls played for the commission, Ms Berejiklian says she didn't need to know certain pieces of information relating to Mr Maguire's business dealings.
This includes a call on September 7, 2017, where she says of a particular deal: "I don’t need to know about that bit" and Mr Maguire responds: "No, you don't."
But Ms Berejiklian told ICAC on Monday she would have "no compunction" in reporting Mr Maguire if she knew anything was wrong and that she "trusted him".
She denied she was seeking to avoid being told anything she would need to act upon.
On Monday, it was also revealed Ms Berejiklian and Mr Maguire were in a "close personal relationship" since the 2015 election and only ceased contact with him in September.
In an August 2017 call they discussed potential future plans together.
Ms Berejiklian told Mr Maguire on the call: "You will always be my numero uno."
Asked what she meant by that by counsel assisting Scott Robertson, the Premier said she probably meant, "in my personal life I placed importance on how I felt about him."
The most important news, analysis and insights delivered to your inbox at the start and end of each day. Sign up to The Sydney Morning Herald’s newsletter here, The Age’s newsletter here, Brisbane Times' here and WAtoday's here.
Laura is a journalist for The Sydney Morning Herald.
Lucy Cormack is a state political reporter with The
Sydney Morning Herald.
Michaela Whitbourn is a legal affairs reporter at The Sydney Morning Herald.
Copyright © 2020