It's a children's show, it's a magic children's show – full of giggles, imaginative play and fun.
The play is based on the book, Magic Beach, by Victorian award-winning author Alison Lester, who has written and illustrated 25 children's books, including Kissed by the Moon and Are We There Yet?: A Journey around Australia.
Magic Beach, from left, starring Jade Fuda as Lucy, Alex Packard as Danny and Kate Betcher as Toby ('not fish head') and staged by the State Theatre of Western Australia.
While the book conjures up the poetry of kids' adventures at a beach with wild horses for waves, fascinating rock pools, sandcastle kingdoms complete with a dragon, smugglers' caves for hoarding treasure, jetties for catching sharks and bonfires at night, the play masterfully navigates these same adventures through the tale of one family, whose oldest girl Sally has turned 11 and trying to work out whether she is ready to farewell her childhood as a pre-teen or not.
While Jade Fuda as Lucy, aged six, provided most of the audience laughs with her karate/jujitsu/tae kwon do moves and pulled silly faces, interestingly my five-year-old was most enamoured with Kate Betcher as Sally, who starts off her beach adventure with lounging around and collecting sand since jobs were grown up, but who quickly joins her younger siblings in doing battle against the dragon that threatens their castle and later casting away on the high sea.
But a well-timed faceplant into the water by Lucy had both my daughters (the other aged two) laughing out loud, and possibly stole the show from the dad fart in the car ride to the beach.
Alex Packard as eight-year-old and "one month and four days" Danny nails the annoying, sulky middle brother, perhaps a little too well.
It can be a difficult task to maintain children's attention, but Lester's adapted dialogue makes way just at the right time for the occasional song or animal prop that keeps children as young as two fixated for the full 40 minutes.
Director Liesel Badorrek has helped craft a show that popped with fun and imagination, and the conclusion was every bit as heartwarming as a toasted marshmallow on the beach.
The State Theatre of Western Australia continues to artfully bring to life many popular children's novels, like the Julia Donaldson series' The Gruffalo, which we saw last year, Room on a Broom, currently showing, and The Gruffalo's Child, earmarked for March 2021.
For anyone who has taken their children to a Disney on Ice or a Wiggles performance, these intimate stage shows held at the Heath Ledger Theatre hold every bit as much entertainment that'll have your children smiling, with plenty of stories to share about their favourite parts.
Aja Styles is a digital culture editor for The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age.
Copyright © 2020