The number of applicants for the Australian Defence Force has spiked nationwide and the pandemic is considered to be the major cause.
Recruiting figures show a 23 per cent rise in applications from January to August. The highest increase was in Victoria (43 per cent), followed by NSW (25 per cent) and the ACT (23 per cent). The number of women applying to enlist has also risen, by 25 per cent.
CPO Alee-Marie Scarfone meets with Defence Force candidates Bascam and Holly at the Defence Force Recruiting Centre in Rhodes.Credit:Dominic Lorrimer
Brigadier Duncan Hayward, director-general of Defence Force Recruiting, said there had been 59,213 applications in the year to August, compared with 48,000 in the same period last year.
“We have seen about a 23 per cent increase in applications between January and August and we aim to fill about 8000 roles a year,” he said.
“It is always hard to track an increase, but one of the reasons is clearly COVID-19. The second is that Defence has been in the public eye for its response to disaster relief, Operation Bushfire Assist and also its response and assistance with COVID.”
The pandemic has affected the entire recruitment process. In the past, candidates would be invited to barracks or naval bases, but now almost the entire procedure is done with virtual meetings and assessments.
No cases of COVID-19 have been introduced into the armed forces during recruitment, with strict monitoring procedures in place. At HMAS Creswell Naval College in Jervis Bay, new recruits have had to spend two weeks in quarantine before gaining access to training ships.
Chief Petty Officer Alee-Marie Scarfone, a specialist recruiter for women for the navy in Sydney, said they had had to adapt rapidly. “We virtualised quickly – instead of people coming in to do their aptitude tests, their first contact with defence personnel is online,” she said.
“There are currently 19 per cent women in the navy and we are pushing for 25 per cent by 2025. We are probably one of the most progressive countries [in this area]. There is no role that isn't open to females in the navy. We have had several women now that have captained ships.”
The Sun-Herald has been given rare access to document the lives and training regimes of some of the defence force's newest recruits.
COVID-19 has affected training within the forces following recruitment too. Colonel Chris Alder, Acting Commandant of the Royal Military College of Australia, said measures included personnel working from home and isolating to ensure they were ready when called upon, testing members before deployment on Operation COVID-19 Assist, and quarantine for ADF members returning from overseas duty.
“The army continues to undertake certification and readiness requirements to ensure we are able to meet the needs of Australia in the immediate, medium- and long-term,” he said. “For our people working overseas, Defence has taken proactive steps to relocate and redeploy non-essential personnel from Iraq and Afghanistan as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.”
Seamus Linehan, 24, an enrolled nurse on the COVID-19 front line in emergency at Sydney Adventist Hospital, known as the San, in the north shore suburb of Wahroonga has just signed up for the Army Reserves.
“I want to be where the action is,” he said. “I would love to do an active military tour wherever it is in three or four years.”
Get our Coronavirus Update newsletter for the day's crucial developments and the numbers you need to know. Sign up to The Sydney Morning Herald's newsletter here and The Age's here.
Tim Barlass is a Senior Writer for The Sydney Morning Herald
Copyright © 2020