The University of Sydney has distanced itself from an advertisement placed by Hong Kong police for a law enforcement officer on its jobs search website.
The university temporarily removed the advertisement on Monday in response to a complaint that it was not in the "national interest".
Hong Kong police have placed a job advertisement for a police inspector on a University of Sydney jobs search website.
The complainant is an individual who did not want to be identified.
The University of Technology Sydney confirmed it had permanently removed a similar advertisement from its website on Thursday May 14. It had faced a backlash from pro-democracy advocates.
A University of Sydney spokeswoman said its advertisement went live again on its CareerHub website on Monday after it was removed.
"As with all ads on the hub, it is accompanied by a disclaimer that makes clear we do not vouch for the accuracy of the information provided or endorse the organisation that has submitted the ad; students are also advised to verify any information provided for themselves," she said.
"Sydney CareerHub is a jobs database that allows our students to search for advertised and unadvertised work opportunities including casual jobs, internships and graduate roles.
"The hub caters for all our students who may be seeking work – those currently in Australia and also our international students who may be returning home after graduation to pursue their careers."
The Hong Kong Police Force is advertising for an inspector with applications closing on December 31.
A complaint sent to the university called for its removal in "the national interest" in response to the use of police force in the Chinese Communist Party's human rights abuses and the opportunity it provided to recruit students in Australia.
The university spokeswoman said if it receives a complaint about any advertisements on its hub, the standard process is to remove the ad from public view while further investigations are undertaken, and for advice to be sought if required.
The advertisement was originally published on September 28 and was temporarily hidden on Monday.
The University of NSW also reportedly removed a job listing for the Hong Kong Police Force earlier this year. It declined The Herald's request for comment.
The most important news, analysis and insights delivered to your inbox at the start and end of each day. Sign up to The Sydney Morning Herald’s newsletter here, The Age’s newsletter here, Brisbane Times' here and WAtoday's here.
Anna Patty is a Senior Writer for The Sydney Morning Herald with a focus on higher education. She is a former Workplace Editor, Education Editor, State Political Reporter and Health Reporter.
Copyright © 2020