When women I know make staggering misjudgments about their relationships, I am often perfectly happy to share my many years of wisdom, whether they want to hear it or not.
Of course, that has meant some of my friends have kept their private lives just that. Or ignored me for months until I have, again, been proven right.
Gladys Berejiklian giving evidence at the ICAC inquiry on Monday.
But none of them has ever been close to being the Premier of NSW. In the ICAC on Monday, we discover Gladys Berejiklian has made a stupendous error in deciding to have a close and personal relationship with Daryl Maguire. On top of that, she told him: "You will always be my numero uno."
Until hearing that, I’d thought I was her numero uno. As in, me as a NSW voter and resident.
The ICAC is investigating Maguire, the former MP for Wagga Wagga, for a second time. In 2018, he was caught up in an inquiry into claims of improper conduct by former Canterbury City councillors. ICAC is yet to table its report into this long-running inquiry to Parliament.
Maguire resigned from the Liberal Party and Parliament after telling the commission he had sought payment to help broker a property deal with a Chinese developer.
Replay

This time he is at the centre of investigations that he used his position as a member of Parliament to improperly gain a benefit for himself or entities close to him including the company G8wayInternational.
The time in question is between 2012 and 2018. His relationship with the Premier began in 2015. The current investigation is ongoing and is due to report its findings at a later date.
Berejiklian is the woman, the person, the Premier, who survived the Ruby Princess, who steered us through the pandemic in NSW, who made sure, like Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews, that she was always available. Calm. Collected. Even dyed-in-the-wool Labor voters said kind things about Berejiklian on social media. Shocking.
Former Wagga Wagga MP Daryl Maguire.Credit:Janie Barrett
There might be many things that irritate you about the Premier but not her handling of the pandemic, which made it seem like #TeamNSW was possible.
I feel like I am talking to my children before they reached adulthood when I say I am beyond disappointed by her lack of common sense. I mean, who on earth thinks they can get away with shagging Mr Shady and not get caught?
I'm also profoundly disappointed in Maguire who is not fit to tie Berejiklian's shoelaces. It can't be easy being a single woman in such a powerful position and there will be shysters and hucksters hanging around, desperate to be in on the action. How dare he embroil her in this mess.
As Emma Husar, former Labor member for the federal seat of Lindsay, pointed out: "When you are dating someone while you are in politics, you wonder if that connection is genuine or them just wanting to be with you because of the connections you offer them or your status or the power they perceive you have."
Husar, who was disgracefully slut-shamed out of politics by the Labor Party and BuzzFeed, says she used to get a lot of attention from men while she was still in office.
"It was always difficult to know their intent. I ended up deactivating my LinkedIn. People were just using it to hit on me but, in so many cases, it felt like something different to real interest."
She says the media should not only focus on the Premier; Maguire should also be grilled about his intent when he hit on the Premier.
"It is not just her responsibility but she is the only one being shamed."
The former Labor member has some sympathy for the Liberal Premier. "She would never be sure. She would never ever be confident that he was entirely genuine."
It's a good point and I am furious with them both. But he's not the one running NSW. And we won't know for some weeks whether he was running our Premier and whether she turned out to be the most gullible woman in Macquarie Street.
The most important news, analysis and insights delivered to your inbox at the start and end of each day. Sign up here. 
Jenna Price is an academic at the University of Technology Sydney and a regular columnist for The Sydney Morning Herald.
Copyright © 2020