A 43-year-old woman accused of the stabbing murder of a man on King Street in Melbourne’s CBD has fronted court as homicide squad detectives hunt a second man over the bloody brawl.
Candice Harper appeared in Melbourne Magistrates Court via a phone link on Monday charged with the murder of 46-year-old Carlton man Ricky Rowlands during a brawl near a city hotel, about 9.40pm on Saturday.
Candice "Candy" Harper, 43.Credit: 
The court heard it was Ms Harper’s first time in custody and she was "withdrawing" from a substance.
The 43-year-old has been charged with the murder of Mr Rowlands, who died in hospital on Sunday, and affray.
During the brief hearing she yelled over the phone: "You know I’ve got a child out there and an injured partner."
Ms Harper was remanded in custody to reappear on February 15.
Mr Rowlands' girlfriend Bethany Micallef told Nine News he was a gentleman and a free-spirited soul.
“He was always so happy, so positive. When it came to people he was always seeing the better in them,” she said.
“He had a lot of respect for people, and people respected him.
“I’m devastated and shocked. He was a beautiful man, he really was.”
Detectives are hunting 40-year-old Benjamin McCartin, who is wanted for questioning over the fatal brawl.
Wanted man Benjamin McCartin, 40.Credit: 
"Police have a number of follow-up inquiries to make in relation to another man who is believed to be involved and remains outstanding," a police spokeswoman said.
A third man – a 42-year-old from Melbourne – is fighting for life in hospital after being found at the bottom of a fire escape with critical injuries hours after the brawl.
Police at the scene in Melbourne's CBD.Credit:Nine News
At 3am on Sunday emergency services were called to treat a man found at the base of a fire escape at a King Street hotel.
Police were told the injured man had fallen, but the police spokeswoman said detectives were investigating if his injuries were linked to the stabbing.
Mobile phone footage of the aftermath of Saturday's brawl showed a blood-soaked footpath near the intersection of King and Bourke streets as bystanders rushed to assist the injured man.
Police photograph a knife at the scene of the CBD incident.Credit:Nine News
When one man yells, "Is he all right?" a woman leaning over the injured man replies, "Nah."
Hours later forensic officers were seen removing a number of knives from the nearby area while officers from the Critical Incident Response Team combed the city streets.
Anyone with information is urged to contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.
The most important news, analysis and insights delivered to your inbox at the start and end of each day. Sign up here.
Erin covers crime for The Age. Most recently she was a police reporter at the Geelong Advertiser.
Copyright © 2020