Editorial: Without money to pay rent or mortgage, some people will be forced to evade the guidelines and go to work
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile
hough he could never admit it, the reason why much of the north of England is being pushed into further restrictions, or held in already draconian regimes, is because of fundamental failures on the part of the prime minister himself.  
In other words, despite the global “second wave” of Covid-19, the extent of the new restrictions on the north of England and parts of the Midlands was not in fact inevitable or the fault of the people who live north of Watford. After all, the pubs in Hertfordshire or Surrey are not being closed down in the way they are in Liverpool and Manchester. The north/south divide, institutionalised now in three “tiers”, has never been more stark. The feeling that those in places now designated “tier 2” and “tier 3” feel like second- and third-class citizens is palpable. There is a sense of righteous anger at this stigmatisation of whole communities. More than that, the lack of pre-decision consultation is infantilising and insulting. The failure to offer further economic support will further impoverish hard-pressed areas. Yet it is not the fault of the people of Manchester, Middlesbrough or Nottingham that they are being impoverished.  
If, as the deputy chief medical officer for England, Jonathan Van-Tam, asserts, the position on hospital admissions is as grave as it was when the first lockdown was announced in March, then the question obviously arises as to why this should be the case. The answer to that is threefold.
The chancellor, Rishi Sunak, says the country cannot afford it. In reality the country cannot afford not to do it
Getty
Already have an account? Log in here
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no Independent Premium comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.

You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate

Create a commenting name to join the debate
There are no  comments yet - be the first to add your thoughts
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Log in
New to The Independent?
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
