Victoria's Health Department has released a list of the 12 postcodes where mystery coronavirus cases have been confirmed in the past two weeks.
Mystery cases are infections that cannot be traced to an existing cluster or outbreak and are the most concerning to health authorities as they suggest the virus is circulating within the community.
The map below shows the location of the 12 postcodes, which are spread out throughout Melbourne:
The 12 postcodes are:
In 11 of these postcodes, there was one mystery case recorded in the past 14 days.
In postcode 3025 (which takes in the suburbs of Altona East, Altona Gate and Altona North), a source of infection cannot be determined for two people who have tested positive for the virus over the past fortnight.
This is the first time the state's Department of Health and Human Services has provided a postcode-level breakdown of where mystery cases have been recorded.
As of Tuesday afternoon, 67 of the state's 694 populated postcodes are home to at least one person who is currently infected with coronavirus.
You can see whether your postcode currently has any known active COVID-19 cases using the map below:
There are currently 186 active COVID-19 cases statewide, five fewer than on Monday.
Active aged care outbreaks with the highest active case numbers are as follows:
Replay

Non-aged care outbreaks with the highest number of active cases include:
One of the original requirements for Melbourne to move to step three of its road map out of lockdown was for there to have been no more than five mystery cases statewide among people who tested positive for the virus between October 3 and October 16.
The city is now halfway into this reference period, and a total of nine mystery cases have been confirmed in that time, four more than the limit of five.
A breakdown of the infection source of people who tested positive between September 27 and October 10 provided by Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton shows that 129 cases were confirmed over this fortnight.
In a 96 of those cases the infection source was able to be established, and the sources of the remaining 20 infections are still being investigated. Some of these may end up being classed as mystery cases.
It is worth noting that the figure of 13 mystery cases over this period may be revised down if more information emerges about individual cases that allows them to be linked to existing clusters. For example, a couple of days ago there had been two mystery cases on October 5, and now there is just the one, which means the Health Department were subsequently able to work out the source of infection for one case.
Here is the full breakdown over the two weeks:
Tuesday’s 12 new cases do not show up in this data just yet because it typically takes the health department a couple of days to investigate the infection source after someone tests positive for the virus.
However, during the coronavirus update on Tuesday, Premier Daniel Andrews said all but one of the day's new confirmed cases appeared to have a connection to a known cluster.
Deakin University epidemiology chair Catherine Bennett said on Monday that there had been five days in a row of zero mystery cases in Victoria late last month and that the new mystery cases confirmed in recent days coincided with the Chadstone outbreak.
Professor Bennett said it was often the case that mystery diagnoses sparked outbreaks and these outbreaks in turn sparked further mystery cases, causing a cycle of infections unless outbreaks were controlled quickly.
She said the data showed COVID-19 infections were being controlled and that the measures being put in place and the cases being detected at this point in time reduced the risk of cases going unchecked and the numbers increasing down the line.
With Marissa Calligeros 
Get our Coronavirus Update newsletter for the day's crucial developments at a glance, the numbers you need to know and what our readers are saying. Sign up to The Sydney Morning Herald's newsletter here and The Age's here.
Craig Butt joined The Age in 2011 and specialises in data-driven journalism.
Copyright © 2020