Local governments in western Sydney earmarked for thousands of new homes are resisting calls from other councils, including Randwick and Ku-ring-gai, to use the COVID-19 pandemic as an excuse to lower targets for housing development.
Liverpool City Council acting chief executive Eddie Jackson said the area of south-western Sydney remained one of the country's "key growth areas" despite the population slowdown caused by the pandemic.
Sydney councils are divided over whether targets to build houses should be lowered because of the COVID-19 crisis.Credit:Janie Barrett
The council adopted a 10-year housing target of up to 12,000 dwellings, which is being reviewed by the state government.
"Population forecasters predict that COVID-19 will have some negative impact on migration in the short term, however Liverpool remains one of Australia’s key growth areas," he said.
A City of Canterbury Bankstown spokesman said the pandemic had caused a "periodic slowing down" in population growth, and the NSW government should review its planning if there was a sustained downturn in population.
"Population projections constantly change," he said. "Rather than dramatic changes to long term plans and strategies, the best practice is to undertake reviews at regular intervals."
Last week The Sun-Herald reported several Sydney councils, including Randwick, Ku-ring-gai and Ryde, wanted to revise down their housing development targets because of a population slowdown caused by COVID's impact on migration.
The NSW government said those moves were short-sighted, with Planning Minister Rob Stokes warning councils they needed to plan for population growth to pick up once the crisis eases.
The Greater Sydney Commission estimates Sydney will need 725,000 new homes by 2036, including 184,500 in the western city, 157,500 in eastern city and 92,000 for the North.
But the federal budget predicted NSW will have 450,000 fewer people than the federal government forecast a year ago, as the COVID-19 crisis curbs migration.
Councils such as Cumberland City say support for the targets depends on "smart planning and developments are going up in the right location".
"We are quite concerned that housing growth is not being supported by infrastructure and services required to support new housing developments," Cumberland mayor Steve Christou said.
Cumberland City adopted a 20-year housing supply target of 28,000 additional dwellings for the council area, which covers suburbs such as Granville and Auburn.
Cr Christou did not cite the pandemic as a reason to lower housing targets, but expressed concern housing growth "is not being supported by infrastructure and services" required to support new developments.
"We need greater investment in schools, hospitals and public transport to service a much larger population and we don't see that investment coming from the state government," he said.
The most important news, analysis and insights delivered to your inbox at the start and end of each day. Sign up to The Sydney Morning Herald’s newsletter here, The Age’s newsletter here, Brisbane Times' here and WAtoday's here.
Andrew Taylor is a Senior Reporter for The Sydney Morning Herald.
Copyright © 2020