This Queensland election campaign, Brisbane Times is not only reporting on the news of the day, we’re also asking questions on your behalf. Directly.
Is there something you need to know to help you decide how to vote on October 31? Is there an issue you believe has been ignored?
The Queensland election campaign begins today ahead of the October 31 polling day.Credit:Brisbane Times
Simply fill in the form to submit your questions and we’ll direct them to who we believe can best give an answer.
We’re going to try to keep the political spin to a minimum in this space, at least as much as it can be avoided in the heat of an election.
Please note that we may not be able to get answers to all of your questions.
Barbara Hart asks: Why are northern New South Wales local areas excluded from the Queensland/NSW bubble zone that have been COVID-19 free since April, for example, Armidale Regional Council, that abuts Glen Innes Shire? Why not exclude Queensland entry to only people living or working in postcodes with COVID-19 cases in the last 28 days, and who cannot travel through COVID-19 free zones to Queensland? My husband and I are Queenslanders working in northern NSW who need to come home for medical appointments in early November. Under the current rules we would have to go into hotel quarantine.
Police checks at the Queensland-NSW border checkpoint at Nerang.Credit:Elise Derwin
A Queensland Health spokeswoman answers: These are difficult decisions, however these restrictions are in place for the protection of Queenslanders.
We understand there will be some communities close to, but not immediately neighbouring the border, that won’t fall into these border communities and maybe inconvenienced by these restrictions.
The border zone decision balances the health and safety of Queenslanders with preventing the need to put back in place more restrictions.
The border zone was decided based on the location of key services for border towns. This includes both sides of the border – people who live in Queensland but work or go to school in their neighbouring border town, or people who live in New South Wales but come to work or school in their neighbouring border town in Queensland.
A reader (name not supplied) asks: Has NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian got any financial interests in tourist companies in Queensland? What is NSW's ongoing interest in Queensland's border policy really about? Given the LNP appear to have to same policy as the Premier, why does the NSW Premier just attack the caretaker premier? Why isn't this daily barrage from NSW considered an interference in Queensland affairs and indeed in an open election campaign?
NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian does not have any interests in Queensland tourism ventures.Credit:Nick Moir
Brisbane Times PM editor Cameron Atfield answers: To borrow a phrase, I'm going to have to take a lot of that as a comment.
However, I can address the question as to whether Gladys Berejiklian has any financial interests in Queensland tourism. The answer, according to her parliamentary interests disclosure, is "no".
But I can tell you it took me a very long time to get this answer. Finding the disclosure file on the NSW government website is like finding a needle in a haystack. Then, when you finally find the PDF, it is not searchable. So you have to scroll through hundreds of pages to find what you're after.
Anyway, if you're interested in having a look yourself, Ms Berejiklian's return can be seen here, on page 170. Now excuse me while I put my scrolling finger on ice.
Nick asks: How many seats could the Green Party win at the next election? I know there are a few tight races.
Brisbane Times PM editor Cameron Atfield answers: The Greens are often bullish about their chances, but I do know they are targeting three seats in particular — Maiwar, which is already held by the Greens, and the Labor-held South Brisbane and McConnel.
The Greens are targeting inner-city Brisbane seats.Credit:Glenn Hunt
As for their chances in those seats, I will defer to the experts.
Queensland University of Technology political analyst, former Labor government minister and former Speaker John Mickel answers: The Greens have always overinflated their chances.
Their best chances are in retaining Maiwar, winning South Brisbane off the back of LNP preferences, and in McConnel, possibly from Labor preferences if the Greens overwhelm Labor in that seat or from LNP preferences if the LNP is relegated to third place.
The Greens poll well in LNP-held Moggill and Clayfield, but not enough to win.
In the absence of public polls, my best guess is the retention of Maiwar.
Griffith University political expert Paul Williams answers:  Goodness! "Could"? Technically, every seat they contest, as is the case for every party.
Likely to win? Two — Maiwar and South Brisbane.
If the LNP runs third in McConnel, and enough LNP voters want to dump Grace Grace, McConnel is also an outside chance.
A reader (name not supplied) asks: Why is it that Queensland hasn't yet produced a budget this year? Was it because the state budget couldn't be produced until the federal budget was finalised (which didn't happen until after the caretaker period started)?
Brisbane Times state political reporter Lydia Lynch answers: Traditionally states wait until the federal government hands down its budget before delivering their own.
Queensland Treasurer Cameron Dick is yet to deliver his first budget.Credit:Attila Csazar
This year, Queensland was set to break tradition, with a full budget set to be delivered in April ahead of the scheduled federal budget in mid-May.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison postponed handing down the federal budget until October 6, because of the pandemic and states followed suit. October 6 also happened to be the same day the Queensland government entered the caretaker period.
The government released a “mini-budget” in September instead which forecast debt, deficit and other economic indicators such as unemployment and economic growth.
Treasurer Cameron Dick has promised a full budget would be delivered by the end of November, if Labor retains government. Opposition Leader Deb Frecklington has committed to releasing a full budget by early February, if elected.
Here are how other states have timed their budgets:
Mr Dick said: “In a year of such volatility, states have rightly waited to see the federal budget and its impact on revenues before delivering their own budgets”.
Ms Frecklington said: “if you don’t have a budget you don’t have a plan”.
A reader (name not supplied) asks: Will the LNP, if elected sell electricity assets to pay for their promises?
Brisbane Times state political reporter Lydia Lynch answers: Both major parties have ruled out selling government-owned assets to save the state from plunging into further debt.
Deb Frecklington in Mackay this morning.Credit:Lydia Lynch
The LNP went to the 2015 election with a $37 billion asset sales program following a $14 billion program by the former Bligh government.
When asked if an LNP government would sell assets Opposition Leader Deb Frecklington replied: “No”.
Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said: "We have absolutely guaranteed to the people of this state that our electricity assets are not for sale”.
Her Treasurer, Cameron Dick, later clarified that meant all state owned assets including water and ports.
“Queenslanders have made it very clear they do not want public assets sold or leased. So our government will not be selling public assets.”
Queensland’s total debt, including government-owned businesses, will balloon to $102 billion by June 2021, up from the $83.8 million forecast in December as the government is forced to borrow to fund infrastructure projects.
DK asks: Who is likely to lead Labor should they lose the election?
Brisbane Times PM editor Cameron Atfield answers: This is a question to which there is no clear-cut answer. It should also be answered in the context that Queensland Labor has not had a contested leadership ballot since the Joh era.
Unlike the LNP, which decides its parliamentary leader through a party room vote of elected MPs, Labor has a more complicated process. And it's a process we have yet to see in action since it became party policy in 2013.
Annastacia Palaszczuk has been Labor leader since 2012. Cameron Dick (in the background) would be a leading contender to replace her should Labor lose.Credit:Jono Searle/Getty Images
Assuming there is a leadership vacancy (which there automatically would be in the event of an election loss) and it is contested, then those candidates would need to appeal not only to their caucus colleagues, but to affiliated unions and rank-and-file Labor Party members as well.
Each of those three voting blocs will have an equal say in who will be the parliamentary leader of the ALP. So while the Left faction has the biggest voting bloc within caucus, that would not necessarily be played out by other stakeholders' votes.
All that said, the obvious contenders from the current crop would be, from the Right, Cameron Dick and Stirling Hinchliffe; from the Old Guard faction, Curtis Pitt and Grace Grace; and from the Left, Deputy Premier Steven Miles, Mark Bailey or, if you want a dark horse, someone like Shannon Fentiman.
James asks: I'm confused about the [Full Preferential Voting] system. Can you vote for only one candidate in the Queensland state election and still have your vote counted as a formal vote? There are candidates in my electorate that I do not wish to support under any circumstances and I would prefer not to give them any preference at all in my vote.
Brisbane Times PM editor Cameron Atfield answers: With FPV, all boxes must be numbered for your vote to count. Otherwise, your ballot will be considered an informal vote.
Voters will have to number every box on their ballot paper.Credit:AFR
While not everybody agrees with FPV, I think it's the most democratic system in the world. In first-past-the-post elections, the candidate with most votes wins. Sounds fair enough, right? Well, it does as long as that candidate received a majority of the vote. If that first-past-the-post winner received less than half the vote, it becomes quite problematic.
Imagine you're in an electorate where there's one anti-ice cream candidate and three pro-ice cream candidates. The ice cream vote would effectively be split in three, meaning the anti-ice cream candidate could be elected with, say, 30 per cent of the vote. You can see how easy it becomes for an electorate to be represented by somebody with a diametrically opposed view to the majority of voters. And now you can't even inhale a tub of choc-chip to commiserate.
Another system used in many countries is the run-off election. If no candidate receives a majority of votes (50 per cent plus one), then another election is held, but this time with just the top two candidates vying off against each other. FPV effectively makes this an automatic process, without the need to go back to the polls to sort it out.
It's important to remember that your preference flow would never reach the undesirable candidate/s in your electorate if one of the last two candidates standing is numbered ahead of them.
Gabriel Devine asks: How likely is it that the Greens could retain Maiwar this election?
Griffith University political expert Paul Williams answers: Very likely.
Labor will run third and preference Greens over LNP.
Maiwar's Michael Berkman goes into this election as the Greens' sole MP in the Queensland Parliament.
Sven asks: Why are some electorates named after people and not the area? The location of the seat of Caloundra is clear to everybody, but who knows where Oodgeroo or McConnell is located?
An Electoral Commission of Queensland spokeswoman answers: This Brisbane Times article may be helpful.
Acclaimed poet Oodgeroo Noonuccal pictured in 1980 (photograph used with the permission of the Quandamooka people)Credit:Archives
Naming an electorate after an area can be problematic because if there’s a redistribution, the new electorate boundaries may no longer reflect a single place.
For example, Oodgeroo takes in North Stradbroke Island and parts of Cleveland.
Electorate boundaries can be explored here. Just put in an address in the search box and the map will be opened.
Glenn D Amezdroz asks: Amy MacMahon has a large billboard near the Gabba displaying a slogan that the Greens don't access funding from large corporations. Can this be fact-checked, please? Where do the Greens get their funding?
Brisbane Times PM editor Cameron Atfield answers: According to Electoral Commission of Queensland disclosures, the biggest single contributor to the Queensland Greens over the past four years has been reclusive mathematician (and professional punter) Duncan Turpie, who has forked out at least $200,000.
Amy MacMahon during the 2017 state election campaign.Credit:Alex Ellinghausen
The second-biggest contributor to the Queensland Greens is.... the Australian Greens. They have sent more than $200,000 north in the past four years. So did the national body accept any corporate dollars? Not directly, according to Australian Electoral Commission disclosures, with most money coming from various state branches.
Another notable donor is Wotif founder Graeme Wood, who contributed $40,000 in 2017.
The rest of the party's donations are relatively small, coming from individuals rather than corporations.
Copyright © 2020