Think hard. Really hard. In terms of public policy, see if on short notice you could come up with something to set a post-war record for being un-Australian, the most unheard of thing you’ve ever heard of?
I have it! Why not hive off a bit of the iconic Bondi Beach for the exclusive use of the rich? Well, how funny I should say that because such is the precise proposal put forward by a mob called Amalfi Beach Club, which wants to have a European style “beach club” on the sands this summer as the exclusive preserve of those who can afford to pay for it. Oh yes, they can have “pre-booked beach cabanas, accompanied by personal service”. Waverley Council is about to consider it.
I say, no, no, no, and a thousand times NO.
Bondi Beach is for everyone.Credit:Edwina Pickles
Do that, and you mark a stain on the very fabric of the country! I say that a good chunk of the joy of the joint is that no matter who we are, what we do, what our living circumstances are, there is – at least at our best – an essential assumption of equality between us all. And there is no better example of our egalitarian nature than summer on the beach when, as the sun beats down and the waves pound in, you have butcher, baker, candlestick maker, rich man, poor man, beggar man, thief, judges, criminals, matrons, madonnas, young, old, black, white, gay, straight, fit, infirm, all frolicking in the froth and lying on towels side by side with no one giving a damn about anything much, and certainly not who has the best car back in the carpark.
Stop that, on Bondi Beach of all places, and say, “no, this part of the beach is for the rich only, and you poor folk can’t lie here”? Bloody well, NO.
It was the Australian presenter on CNN, John Vause, who put it best of all this week: “There are more cases of COVID-19 in the White House ... than NZ, Taiwan and Vietnam combined.” Bingo.
Going into this election, let all those who defend Trump’s abilities and most particularly his skills and leadership in reducing the impact of COVID on his country, answer that. In those three aforementioned countries you had serious leadership, embracing short-term pain for long-term gain – rather like Dan Andrews in Victoria, come to think of it – and the result is three countries that got entirely on top of it. And on the other hand you had Trump’s America where despite understanding the gravity of the situation in February, he denied the seriousness, set a terrible example and actively encouraged the people not to wear masks. He mocked those governors who tried to restrict movement, and talked of “liberating” states like Michigan where the leadership had wisely imposed the beginnings of lockdown.
And there you have the result. In part, apparently, thanks to holding an event in the Rose Garden to announce the Supreme Court nominee where just about no measures of social distance were observed and few masks worn. It looks to have turned into a “super-spreader” event, with multiple attendees now infected. At least 36 people in the President's orbit have tested positive.
Protecting America against the plague? Please. The fact that President Trump couldn’t even keep it out of the White House, nor even out of the Oval Office, says it all.
Replay

Idly wondering on Thursday if one line often used by Kamala Harris in her strong vice-presidential debate performance “I will not be lectured on law enforcement by the Vice President”, might have been inspired by Julia Gillard’s globally famous words to Tony Abbott, “I will not be lectured on misogyny by this man", I asked our former PM if she saw it like that too?
Alas ... “I have to confess,” she told me, “I have been on Beyond Blue work today and haven’t seen the debate. I will catch up with it! [But] I am always happy to see a woman use a ‘I won’t be lectured’ line.”
Ms Gillard also drew my attention to a social media campaign called #WeHaveHerBack I had not been aware of, calling out sexist and racist commentary in the election.
Basically, online, people are calling out anything racist or sexist towards Ms Harris, with that tag-line.
Kamala Harris seemed to borrow a line from Australia in her debate with Mike Pence. Credit:AP
In an amazing concurrence, Boris Johnson, Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump drop dead with a heart attack at exactly the same moment. An instant later, they are at the Pearly Gates, where Saint Peter ushers them into the presence of the Lord himself.
“Gentlemen,” says the Lord, “I have had a gutful. The world is a complete mess and it cannot go on. One week from today, the world will end. In a minute from now, you will be resuscitated, and I ask you to call a press conference shortly thereafter to tell the world the news, so they can prepare themselves.”
And yea, verily, it came to pass.
One minute later, Boris Johnson comes to, flat on his back at 10 Downing Street, as staff pound his chest and, that evening, addresses the nation.
“I have good news, and I have bad news. The good news is that God exists. I have met Him, and He is a great man. The bad news, alas, is that the world will end a week from tonight because the Lord is no longer prepared to put up with what we humans have done with our life on earth. Thank you and good night.”
Ditto, Vladimir Putin. After being revived he addresses the Russian people: “Patriots, good news and bad news have I. Good news: despite a century of Communist denial, the Lord exists. Bad news: God’s had a gutful. The world will end one week from tonight. This is all.’
And now it is Donald Trump’s: “I have good news,” he tells the American people, "and I have tremendous news. The good news is that I have met the Lord in heaven. Yes, I have met Him, and He exists. But the tremendous news, really tremendous, is that I will not lose the coming election!”
“Make America actively not on fire again.” - Jim Carrey playing Joe Biden introducing his new campaign slogan, in a skit for the opener of the season for Saturday Night Live.
“Full marks for balls Malone. I wouldn’t have taken the risk to not have Alan Jones. But the Alan Jones factor? There wasn’t one! They can be very, very happy with that.” - John Singleton, former owner of 2GB, congratulating Nine radio's chief Tom Malone on his decision to part ways with Jones.
“This is insanity. Every single person in the vehicle during that completely unnecessary presidential ‘drive-by’ just now has to be quarantined for 14 days. They might get sick. They may die. For political theatre. Commanded by Trump to put their lives at risk for theatre.” - Dr James P. Phillips, attending physician at Walter Reed Hospital, after Trump briefly left hospital so he could wave at supporters from a car.
“It’s unexplainable that Donald Trump, actively shedding virus – millions of particles – could walk into that building unmasked with that number of White House staff.” - Jonathan Reiner, professor of Medicine at George Washington University after Trump headed back to the White House, while COVID-positive.
“There’s still no vision for the future.” - Shadow Minister for Finance Jim Chalmers about the budget.
“One of the indicia of a successful judiciary is its anonymity. In Australia, other than lawyers there would be very few who could tell you the names of the seven justices of the High Court. One of the reasons for that is that there is an implicit and deeply grained public assumption ... that the courts, the judges, are the neutral umpires and not the protagonists. I can't help but compare that virtuous state of affairs with the debate you get in the United States – as we're seeing at the moment – about the appointment of judges to their highest court.” - Former attorney-general George Brandis saying that the fight over Ruth Bader Ginsburg's seat on the US Supreme Court should serve as a cautionary tale to Australian lawyers and activists who want judges to have a greater role in ethical and political decisions.
“What we want is for people to live fearlessly but with common sense.” - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s latest solution for COVID-19.
“There’s no more waiting, climate change is actually happening now.” - Dr Sebastian Pfautsch, a senior lecturer in urban studies at the School of Social Sciences at WSU, said the findings of his research showed the effects of climate change were already apparent as Sydney's hottest area reached temperatures above 50 degrees across several locations on three separate days last summer.
“I feel great, I feel like perfect. I think this was a blessing from God that I caught it, this was a blessing in disguise.” - President Trump, on catching COVID-19. The Lord – he moves in mysterious ways.
Twitter: @Peter_Fitz
A previous version of this article said Woollahra Council would consider the Amalfi Beach Club proposal. It is in fact Waverley Council.
Peter FitzSimons is a journalist and columnist with The Sydney Morning Herald.
Copyright © 2020