Boutique travel agent Orley Makler spent the first three months of the pandemic in Australia "dismantling what I'd spent the previous six months putting together".
She knew what it could mean for her business but could not have foreseen in March that her fortunes would swing from hiring a sixth staff member to living on $750, then $600, a week.
Orley Makler's boutique travel agency was about to hire its sixth staffer when the pandemic hit, now she is living on JobKeeper.Credit:Janie Barrett
One by one she unpicked bookings for travellers from Sydney's adventurous demographics: "Clients wanting to go all over the world, to weddings, reunions, 80ths, multi-generational tips, corporate, gap year kids ...
"Every level of our client base was booked to go. We had over 100 bookings in the first three to six months of the year," says the Maroubra woman.
She is experiencing what new research has found is an unfortunate catch-up in the number of women's small businesses failing as the pandemic progresses.
Research from the University of Sydney and University of Melbourne has found that, while male operators suffered worse in the first wave of the COVID-19 in Australia, women's businesses are now more disrupted.
Between May and September the disruption of male owner-operator businesses (in states other than Victoria) improved from 10 per cent to 7 per cent, according to the The Worsening of Australian Women's Experiences Under Covid report, for which Dr Shaun Ratcliff of the University of Sydney co-authored.
The proportion of businesses owned and operated by women disrupted by the pandemic also declined, from 11 per cent to 8 per cent. The researchers say the combined effect of economic stress, greater domestic load and anxiety is causing a "triple whammy" for women during the pandemic.
Associate Professor Leah Ruppanner said the research, which compared how people were faring in May and again in September, found women were more feeling more anxious about finding future work than men, were more worried they would not have enough money to retire, were sleeping worse and feeling more physically unwell.
Ms Ruppanner says the combined effect of factors including work loss, the greater domestic load and anxiety is striking.
"The thing that stands out is the cumulative effect ... It's not just that women are doing more of the housework and have been losing jobs at higher rates; their health has been affected and they can't sleep," said Ruppanner.
It's not just that women are doing more housework and have been losing jobs at higher rates; their health has been affected.
She said while the effects of the pandemic are happening to everyone, "they are happening disproportionately."
The proportion of men in states other than Victoria who were "extremely worried about not having enough money to retire" fell from 30 per cent in May to 28 per cent in September, while for women it shifted from 41 per cent to 39 per cent.
Compared to a year ago, 14 per cent of women said they were "extremely worried" about not having the skills for the future of work, while 10 per cent of men felt the same.
Men are becoming more anxious: the number who said they were feeling anxious "most, almost all, or all of the time" increased from 21 per cent to 25 per cent between May and September. For women it remained stable at 30 per cent.
Sleep was disrupted for both genders: 37 per cent of women slept badly most or almost all the time compared with 28 per cent of men in states outside Victoria – measured separately due to the state's second lockdown.
Leah Ruppanner said those feeling heavy impacts in their lives should feel validated that "someone is documenting what is happening to them".
But she questioned "where are the lifelines for women?" in light of the budget's focus on male-dominated industries, lack of childcare support or employment subsidies for the vulnerable group of older women.
Grattan Institute CEO Danielle Wood said the pandemic had opened up "fault lines that were clearly already there in society". Women in families who could no longer afford childcare due to the loss or reduction of the second income, usually the mother's, may struggle to reconnect to the workforce.
"What that means is [pandemic disruption] is going to disproportionately hit women as the economy recovers," she said.
Wendy Tuohy is a Sunday Age senior writer.
Copyright © 2020