By Lucy Stone
Sundown National Park, in southern Queensland.Credit:Lucy Stone
As Queenslanders flock to the state's national parks in caravans, tents and cars, research has unveiled the remarkable economic value those parks generate through tourism.
Two University of Queensland researchers, with funding from the state Department of Environment and Science, have determined the state's national parks bring in more than $2.64 billion spending annually.
They also contribute $1.98 billion in the state's gross tourism product – almost 10 per cent of the total – across Queensland's almost 500 national parks and conservation parks.
Surveying 1000 visitors to parks statewide before the coronavirus pandemic, Dr Sally Driml and Associate Professor Richard Brown found for every dollar spent on national park visitor management, visitor spending produced about $6.30 in value and benefits.
Dr Driml said such research was vitally important for governments to understand how important national parks were to the economy, and to make decision about future conservation projects.
"Because national parks are generally free, we don't really appreciate how much value they generate in terms of tourism," she said.
The figures calculated include not just time spent in the national parks, but visitors' transport, food and beverages, and accommodation in the region associated with each national park.
Dr Driml and Professor Brown surveyed 1000 visitors in four regions around Queensland, asking park visitors how much they spent in each region for their visit to the national park.
Girraween National Park is particularly popular.Credit:Lucy Stone
The four regions, selected out of Queensland's 13 defined tourism regions, covered an "urban" national park represented by Noosa National Park; an "iconic" park represented by Daintree National Park; a "remote" park represented by Carnarvon National Park, and "outback", involving several outback national parks.
The researchers developed three categories of spending: how much people spent broadly in a region associated with the national park; people who might have gone to the region for another reason and then visited the park; and people who would not have travelled to the region if the national park was not there.
"We specifically asked people, if the national park were not there, would they have come to the region and travelled in Queensland at all?" Dr Driml said.
They found in three of the four regions, 20 per cent of visitors said they were unlikely to travel to the state at all if they couldn't visit a national park.
"That [20 per cent] was a high figure, we were surprised," she said.
While the research didn't delve further into why so many people said they wouldn't visit without a park, Dr Driml said many people indicated they had researched national parks before travelling.
Professor Brown said while surveying in Noosa, many international visitors told him they had read about the Noosa National Park overseas and put it on their itinerary.
Professor Brown said the importance of this multi-definition approach was because many other studies that attempted to evaluate the economic impact of natural wonders, such as the Great Barrier Reef, simply added up all spending in a region, regardless of why people were in the region.
He also noted that the study, focused purely on the economic impacts, did not quantify the powerful value of national parks to visitors' wellbeing, and conservation efforts.
Red Rock Gorge in Sundown National Park.Credit:Lucy Stone
While the study was focused on a pre-COVID tourism economy, figures provided to Brisbane Times by the Department of Environment and Science showed a spike in the number of people visiting parks since June.
Camping and vehicle permits shot up by 40 per cent to 194,818 across the four months between June and September, compared with the same months last year.
The number of individual campers rose 23 per cent from 216,591 in June-September 2019 to 266,547 in June-September 2020.
"This is great news for the state and it means the tourism industry is coming back to life. Exploring Queensland’s national parks appears to be on the top of everyone’s holiday 'to do' list," a DES spokeswoman said.
Dr Driml and Professor Brown noted it would be a benefit for national parks to install visitor counters at entrances to better track the visitation numbers.
Shortly before the caretaker period began for the state election, Environment Minister Leeanne Enoch announced the state's $60 million long-term strategy for national park investment and protection.
"National parks and other protected areas will play a big role in Queensland’s economic recovery," Ms Enoch said.
"They are a vital part of Queensland’s vibrant tourism industry; they support jobs and industries in our regions and provide a connection to nature and culture that is vital to our overall health and wellbeing."
Dr Driml and Professor Brown said the research had generated interstate interest, and they hoped it would have a positive influence on government decisions around Queensland's national parks.
The original article stated national parks brought in 10 per cent of Queensland's gross state product. The article should have stated national parks brought in 10 per cent of Queensland's gross state tourism product. This has been amended.
Lucy is the urban affairs reporter for the Brisbane Times, with a special interest in Brisbane City Council.
Copyright © 2020