Thousands of participants in the Sun-Herald City2Surf will run throughout Sydney next weekend, prompting authorities to remind motorists about the expected influx of pedestrians near popular exercise tracks.
The pandemic will prevent the world's largest fun run taking place on its usual route winding from the CBD to Bondi Beach, but the first "virtual" event allows runners, joggers and walkers to choose their own course.
City2Surf Runners make their way along William Street during the 2019 event. This year, runners will take part in a virtual event. Credit:Brook Mitchell
Authorities are warning motorists to be cautious of runners darting in front of cars or crowding pedestrian crossings.
Participants are banned from running the usual course from Hyde Park to the eastern suburbs and will be disqualified if they take that route, or if they finish at Bondi Park or Queen Elizabeth Drive.
The "virtual" event means participants can complete their walk or run anytime from 6am Friday to 6pm Sunday.
There will be none of the typical road closures, and this year's event rules require more than 7000 people registered for the event to stay off the city's roads and stick to footpaths or nature strips.
Sydneysiders have been warned popular walking and running tracks, such as the Bay Run loop in the inner west, might be more crowded than usual next weekend. Credit:Steven Siewert
Transport for NSW' chief operations officer Howard Collins said parking around popular running tracks could get busy, so participants should allow additional travel time and be "extra careful".
"We do not want people running on the road where there is a footpath or nature strip or darting out in front of vehicles when crossing roads.
"Please ditch any unnecessary distractions, look left and right and check twice for trams or other vehicles when crossing the road. Make sure you look out before you step or run out."
Mr Collins said participants who were considering completing the course on a popular track were encouraged to start early in the morning to avoid the larger mid-morning and lunch time crowds.
Motorists are also warned there might be an increase in the number of pedestrians running near roads, along footpaths, and crossing roads and driveways between 6am and 6pm next Sunday.
"If you are participating in this year’s event please remember to stay on designated footpaths and walkways, use designated crossings where available, and if you are driving that day be mindful of the extra pedestrians who will be out and about."
Mr Collins strongly urged any participants who planned on using public transport on the day to wear a mask and maintain physical distancing.
Crowds on popular exercise routes in Sydney, including the Bondi to Bronte coastal track and the Bay Run loop, were a focus for health and local council authorities encouraging compliance with physical distancing measures during the height of the coronavirus pandemic earlier this year.
Entries are open now for the Sun-Herald City2Surf, which will be held on October 18.
Megan Gorrey is the Urban Affairs reporter at The Sydney Morning Herald.
Copyright © 2020